 aer banknote berlitz calloway centrust cluett fromstein gitano guterman hydro-quebec ipo kia memotec mlx nahb punts rake regatta rubens sim snack-food ssangyong swapo wachter 
 pierre years old will join the board as a nonexecutive director nov. 
 mr. is chairman of n.v. the dutch publishing group 
 rudolph years old and former chairman of consolidated gold fields plc was named a nonexecutive director of this british industrial conglomerate 
 a form of asbestos once used to make kent cigarette filters has caused a high percentage of cancer deaths among a group of workers exposed to it more than years ago researchers reported 
 the asbestos fiber is unusually once it enters the with even brief exposures to it causing symptoms that show up decades later researchers said 
 inc. the unit of new york-based corp. that makes kent cigarettes stopped using in its cigarette filters in 
 although preliminary findings were reported more than a year ago the latest results appear in today 's new england journal of medicine a forum likely to bring new attention to the problem 
 a said this is an old story 
 we 're talking about years ago before anyone heard of asbestos having any questionable properties 
 there is no asbestos in our products now 
 neither nor the researchers who studied the workers were aware of any research on smokers of the kent cigarettes 
 we have no useful information on whether users are at risk said james a. of boston 's cancer institute 
 dr. led a team of researchers from the national cancer institute and the medical schools of harvard university and boston university 
 the spokeswoman said asbestos was used in very modest amounts in making paper for the filters in the early 1950s and replaced with a different type of in 
 from to N billion kent cigarettes with the filters were sold the company said 
 among men who worked closely with the substance have died more than three times the expected number 
 four of the five surviving workers have diseases including three with recently cancer 
 the total of deaths from malignant lung cancer and was far higher than expected the researchers said 
 the rate is a striking finding among those of us who study diseases said dr. 
 the percentage of lung cancer deaths among the workers at the west mass. paper factory appears to be the highest for any asbestos workers studied in western industrialized countries he said 
 the plant which is owned by & co. was under contract with to make the cigarette filters 
 the finding probably will support those who argue that the u.s. should regulate the class of asbestos including more than the common kind of asbestos found in most schools and other buildings dr. said 
 the u.s. is one of the few industrialized nations that does n't have a higher standard of regulation for the smooth fibers such as that are classified as according to t. a professor of at the university of vermont college of medicine 
 more common fibers are and are more easily rejected by the body dr. explained 
 in july the environmental protection agency imposed a gradual ban on virtually all uses of asbestos 
 by almost all remaining uses of asbestos will be outlawed 
 about workers at a factory that made paper for the kent filters were exposed to asbestos in the 1950s 
 areas of the factory were particularly dusty where the was used 
 workers dumped large of the imported material into a huge poured in cotton and fibers and mixed the dry fibers in a process used to make filters 
 workers described clouds of blue dust that hung over parts of the factory even though fans the area 
 there 's no question that some of those workers and managers contracted diseases said phillips vice president of human resources for & 
 but you have to recognize that these events took place years ago 
 it has no bearing on our work force today 
 yields on money-market mutual funds continued to slide amid signs that portfolio managers expect further declines in interest rates 
 the average seven-day compound yield of the taxable funds tracked by 's money fund report eased a fraction of a percentage point to N from N for the week ended tuesday 
 compound yields assume reinvestment of dividends and that the current yield continues for a year 
 average maturity of the funds ' investments by a day to days the longest since early august according to donoghue 's 
 longer maturities are thought to indicate declining interest rates because they permit portfolio managers to retain relatively higher rates for a longer period 
 shorter maturities are considered a sign of rising rates because portfolio managers can capture higher rates sooner 
 the average maturity for funds open only to institutions considered by some to be a stronger indicator because those managers watch the market closely reached a high point for the year days 
 nevertheless said editor of money fund report yields may up again before they down because of recent rises in short-term interest rates 
 the yield on six-month treasury bills sold at monday 's auction for example rose to N from N 
 despite recent declines in yields investors continue to pour cash into money funds 
 assets of the taxable funds grew by $ billion during the latest week to $ billion 
 typically money-fund yields beat comparable short-term investments because portfolio managers can vary maturities and go after the highest rates 
 the top money funds are currently yielding well over N 
 dreyfus world-wide dollar the fund had a seven-day compound yield of N during the latest week down from N a week earlier 
 it invests heavily in dollar-denominated securities overseas and is currently management fees which boosts its yield 
 the average seven-day simple yield of the funds was N down from N 
 the 30-day simple yield fell to an average N from N the 30-day compound yield slid to an average N from N 
 j.p. vice chairman of grace & co. which holds a N interest in this company was elected a director 
 he succeeds d. formerly a grace vice chairman who resigned 
 grace holds three of grace energy 's seven board seats 
 pacific first financial corp. said shareholders approved its acquisition by royal ltd. of toronto for $ a share or $ million 
 the thrift holding company said it expects to obtain regulatory approval and complete the transaction by year-end 
 international inc. said its & unit completed the sale of its controls operations to s.p a. for $ million 
 is an italian state-owned holding company with interests in the mechanical engineering industry 
 controls based in ohio makes computerized industrial controls systems 
 it employs people and has annual revenue of about $ million 
 the federal government suspended sales of u.s. savings bonds because congress has n't lifted the ceiling on government debt 
 until congress acts the government has n't any authority to issue new debt obligations of any kind the treasury said 
 the government 's borrowing authority dropped at midnight tuesday to $ trillion from $ trillion 
 legislation to lift the debt ceiling is in the fight over cutting capital-gains taxes 
 the house has voted to raise the ceiling to $ trillion but the senate is n't expected to act until next week at the earliest 
 the treasury said the u.s. will default on nov. if congress does n't act by then 
 clark j. was named senior vice president and general manager of this u.s. sales and marketing arm of japanese auto maker mazda motor corp 
 in the new position he will oversee mazda 's u.s. sales service parts and marketing operations 
 previously mr. years old was general marketing manager of chrysler corp. 's chrysler division 
 he had been a sales and marketing executive with chrysler for years 
 when it 's time for their the nation 's manufacturing typically jet off to the of resort towns like and hot springs 
 not this year 
 the national association of manufacturers settled on the capital of indianapolis for its fall board meeting 
 and the city decided to treat its guests more like royalty or rock stars than factory owners 
 the idea of course to prove to corporate decision makers that the buckle on the belt is n't so after all that it 's a good place for a company to expand 
 on the receiving end of the message were officials from giants like du pont and along with lesser like steel and the valley queen factory 
 for the executives joined mayor william h. iii for an evening of the indianapolis and a guest victor 
 champagne and followed 
 the next morning with a police of executives and their wives to the indianapolis motor by traffic or red lights 
 the governor could n't make it so the governor welcomed the special guests 
 a buffet breakfast was held in the museum where food and drinks are banned to everyday visitors 
 then in the guests ' honor the out four drivers crews and even the official indianapolis announcer for a exhibition race 
 after the race fortune executives like over the cars and drivers 
 no the drivers pointed out they still had space on their machines for another sponsor 's name or two 
 back downtown the squeezed in a few meetings at the hotel before the buses again 
 this time it was for dinner and a block away 
 under the stars and of the indiana nine of the hottest chefs in town fed them indiana and with a 
 knowing a and free when they eat one the executives gave the chefs a standing 
 more than a few say the treatment them to return to a city for future meetings 
 but for now they 're looking forward to their winter meeting in february 
 south korea registered a trade deficit of $ million in october reflecting the country 's economic according to government figures released wednesday 
 preliminary by the trade and industry ministry showed another trade deficit in october the fifth monthly setback this year casting a cloud on south korea 's economy 
 exports in october stood at $ billion a mere N increase from a year earlier while imports increased sharply to $ billion up N from last october 
 south korea 's economic boom which began in stopped this year because of prolonged labor disputes trade conflicts and sluggish exports 
 government officials said exports at the end of the year would remain under a government target of $ billion 
 despite the gloomy forecast south korea has recorded a trade surplus of $ million so far this year 
 from january to october the nation 's accumulated exports increased N from the same period last year to $ billion 
 imports were at $ billion up N 
 newsweek trying to keep pace with rival time magazine announced new advertising rates for and said it will introduce a new incentive plan for advertisers 
 the new ad plan from newsweek a unit of the washington post co. is the second incentive plan the magazine has offered advertisers in three years 
 plans that give advertisers discounts for maintaining or increasing ad spending have become permanent at the news and underscore the fierce competition between newsweek time warner inc. 's time magazine and b. 's u.s. news & world report 
 alan recently named newsweek president said newsweek 's ad rates would increase N in january 
 a full page in newsweek will cost $ 
 in mid-october time magazine lowered its guaranteed circulation rate base for while not increasing ad page rates with a lower circulation base time 's ad rate will be effectively N higher per subscriber a full page in time costs about $ 
 u.s. news has yet to announce its ad rates 
 newsweek said it will introduce the circulation credit plan which space credits to advertisers on renewal advertising 
 the magazine will reward with page bonuses advertisers who in meet or exceed their spending as long as they spent $ in and $ in 
 mr. said the plan is not an attempt to shore up a decline in ad pages in the first nine months of newsweek 's ad pages totaled a drop of N from last year according to publishers information bureau 
 what matters is what advertisers are paying per page and in that department we are doing fine this fall said mr. 
 both newsweek and u.s. news have been gaining circulation in recent years without heavy use of electronic to subscribers such as telephones or watches 
 however none of the big three recorded circulation gains recently 
 according to audit bureau of time the largest had average circulation of a decrease of N 
 newsweek 's circulation for the first six months of was flat from the same period last year 
 u.s. news ' circulation in the same time was down N 
 new england electric system bowed out of the bidding for public service co. of new hampshire saying that the risks were too high and the potential too far in the future to justify a higher offer 
 the move leaves united illuminating co. and northeast utilities as the remaining outside bidders for ps of new hampshire which also has proposed an internal reorganization plan in chapter bankruptcy proceedings under which it would remain an independent company 
 new england electric based in mass. had offered $ billion to acquire ps of new hampshire well below the $ billion value united illuminating places on its bid and the $ billion northeast says its bid is worth 
 united illuminating is based in new haven conn. and northeast is based in hartford conn 
 ps of new hampshire n.h. values its internal reorganization plan at about $ billion 
 john rowe president and chief executive officer of new england electric said the company 's return on equity could suffer if it made a higher bid and its forecasts related to ps of new hampshire such as growth in electricity demand and improved operating did n't come true 
 when we raising our bid the risks seemed substantial and persistent over the next five years and the rewards seemed a long way out 
 that got hard to take he added 
 mr. rowe also noted that political concerns also worried new england electric 
 no matter who owns ps of new hampshire after it emerges from bankruptcy proceedings its rates will be among the highest in the nation he said 
 that attracts attention 
 it was just another one of the risk factors that led to the company 's decision to withdraw from the bidding he added 
 wilbur ross jr. of rothschild inc. the financial adviser to the troubled company 's equity holders said the withdrawal of new england electric might speed up the reorganization process 
 the fact that new england proposed lower rate increases N over seven years against around N boosts proposed by the other two outside bidders complicated negotiations with state officials mr. ross asserted 
 now the field is less he added 
 separately the federal energy regulatory commission turned down for now a request by northeast seeking approval of its possible purchase of ps of new hampshire 
 northeast said it would its request and still hopes for an review by the ferc so that it could complete the purchase by next summer if its bid is the one approved by the bankruptcy court 
 ps of new hampshire shares closed yesterday at $ off cents in new york stock exchange composite trading 
 norman years old and former president and chief operating officer of toys r us inc. and frederick jr. chairman of banking corp. were elected directors of this consumer electronics and appliances retailing chain 
 they succeed daniel m. retired circuit city executive vice president and robert r. u.s. treasury undersecretary on the board 
 commonwealth edison co. was ordered to refund about $ million to its current and former for illegal rates collected for cost overruns on a nuclear power plant 
 the refund was about $ million more than previously ordered by the illinois commerce commission and trade groups said it may be the largest ever required of a state or local utility 
 state court judge richard curry ordered edison to make average refunds of about $ to $ each to edison customers who have received electric service since april including about two million customers who have moved during that period 
 judge curry ordered the refunds to begin feb. and said that he would n't any appeals or other attempts to block his order by commonwealth edison 
 the refund pool may not be held through another round of appeals judge curry said 
 commonwealth edison said it is already appealing the underlying commission order and is considering appealing judge curry 's order 
 the exact amount of the refund will be determined next year based on actual made until dec. of this year 
 commonwealth edison said the ruling could force it to slash its earnings by $ a share 
 for commonwealth edison reported earnings of $ million or $ a share 
 a commonwealth edison spokesman said that tracking down the two million customers whose addresses have changed during the past N years would be an administrative nightmare 
 in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday commonwealth edison closed at $ down cents 
 the $ billion plant near ill. was completed in 
 in a disputed ruling the commerce commission said commonwealth edison could raise its electricity rates by $ million to pay for the plant 
 but state courts upheld a challenge by consumer groups to the commission 's rate increase and found the rates illegal 
 the illinois supreme court ordered the commission to audit commonwealth edison 's construction expenses and refund any expenses 
 the utility has been collecting for the plant 's construction cost from its million customers subject to a refund since 
 in august the commission ruled that between $ million and $ million of the plant 's construction cost was and should be plus interest 
 in his ruling judge curry added an additional $ million to the commission 's calculations 
 last month judge curry set the interest rate on the refund at N 
 commonwealth edison now faces an additional refund on its rate that the illinois appellate court has estimated at $ million 
 and consumer groups hope that judge curry 's order may set a precedent for a second nuclear rate case involving commonwealth edison 's plant 
 commonwealth edison is seeking about $ million in rate increases to pay for 
 the commission is expected to rule on the case by year end 
 last year commonwealth edison had to refund $ million for poor performance of its i nuclear plant 
 japan 's domestic sales of cars trucks and buses in october rose N from a year earlier to units a record for the month the japan automobile dealers ' association said 
 the strong growth followed year-to-year increases of N in august and N in september 
 the monthly sales have been setting records every month since march 
 october sales compared with the previous month inched down N 
 sales of passenger cars grew N from a year earlier to units 
 sales of medium-sized cars which benefited from price reductions arising from introduction of the consumption tax more than doubled to units from in october 
 texas instruments japan ltd. a unit of texas instruments inc. said it opened a plant in south korea to manufacture control devices 
 the new plant located in about miles from seoul will help meet increasing and diversifying demand for control products in south korea the company said 
 the plant will produce control devices used in motor vehicles and household appliances 
 the survival of spinoff cray computer corp. as a fledgling in the supercomputer business appears to depend heavily on the creativity and of its chairman and chief designer seymour cray 
 not only is development of the new company 's initial machine tied directly to mr. cray so is its balance sheet 
 documents filed with the securities and exchange commission on the pending spinoff disclosed that cray research inc. will withdraw the almost $ million in financing it is providing the new firm if mr. cray leaves or if the project he heads is scrapped 
 the documents also said that although the mr. cray has been working on the project for more than six years the cray-3 machine is at least another year away from a fully operational prototype 
 moreover there have been no orders for the cray-3 so far though the company says it is talking with several prospects 
 while many of the risks were anticipated when cray research first announced the spinoff in may the it attached to the financing had n't been made public until yesterday 
 we did n't have much of a choice cray computer 's chief financial officer gregory said in an interview 
 the theory is that seymour is the chief designer of the cray-3 and without him it could not be completed 
 cray research did not want to fund a project that did not include seymour 
 the documents also said that cray computer anticipates perhaps another $ million in financing beginning next september 
 but mr. called that a scenario 
 the filing on the details of the spinoff caused cray research stock to jump $ yesterday to close at $ in new york stock exchange composite trading 
 analysts noted yesterday that cray research 's decision to link its $ million note to mr. cray 's presence will complicate a valuation of the new company 
 it has to be considered as an additional risk for the investor said gary p. of group inc. minneapolis 
 cray computer will be a concept stock he said 
 you either believe seymour can do it again or you do n't 
 besides the designer 's age other risk factors for mr. cray 's new company include the cray-3 's tricky chip technology 
 the sec documents describe those chips which are made of as being so fragile and minute they will require special handling equipment 
 in addition the cray-3 will contain processors twice as many as the largest current supercomputer 
 cray computer also will face intense competition not only from cray research which has about N of the world-wide supercomputer market and which is expected to roll out the machine a direct competitor with the cray-3 in 
 the spinoff also will compete with international business machines corp. and japan 's big three hitachi ltd. nec corp. and fujitsu ltd 
 the new company said it believes there are fewer than potential customers for priced between $ million and $ million presumably the cray-3 price range 
 under terms of the spinoff cray research stockholders are to receive one cray computer share for every two cray research shares they own in a distribution expected to occur in about two weeks 
 no price for the new shares has been set 
 instead the companies will leave it up to the marketplace to decide 
 cray computer has applied to trade on nasdaq 
 analysts calculate cray computer 's initial book value at about $ a share 
 along with the note cray research is about $ million in assets primarily those related to the cray-3 development which has been a drain on cray research 's earnings 
 balance sheets clearly show why cray research favored the spinoff 
 without the cray-3 research and development expenses the company would have been able to report a profit of $ million for the first half of rather than the $ million it posted 
 on the other hand had it existed then cray computer would have incurred a $ million loss 
 mr. cray who could n't be reached for comment will work for the new colorado springs colo. company as an independent contractor the arrangement he had with cray research 
 regarded as the father of the supercomputer mr. cray was paid $ at cray research last year 
 at cray computer he will be paid $ 
 besides messrs. cray and other senior management at the company includes neil president and chief executive officer joseph m. vice president engineering malcolm a. vice president software and douglas r. vice president hardware 
 all came from cray research 
 cray computer which currently employs people said it expects a work force of by the end of 
 john r. stevens years old was named senior executive vice president and chief operating officer both new positions 
 he will continue to report to donald president and chief executive officer 
 mr. stevens was executive vice president of this holding company 
 arthur a. hatch was named executive vice president of the company 
 he was previously president of the company 's eastern edison co. unit 
 john d. was named to succeed mr. hatch as president of eastern edison 
 previously he was vice president of eastern edison 
 robert p. was named senior vice president of eastern utilities 
 he was previously vice president 
 the u.s. claiming some success in its trade removed south korea taiwan and saudi arabia from a list of countries it is closely watching for allegedly failing to honor u.s. patents and other rights 
 however five other countries china thailand india brazil and mexico will remain on that so-called priority watch list as a result of an interim review u.s. trade representative carla hills announced 
 under the new u.s. trade law those countries could face accelerated investigations and stiff trade sanctions if they do n't improve their protection of intellectual property by next spring 
 mrs. hills said many of the countries that she placed under degrees of scrutiny have made genuine progress on this touchy issue 
 she said there is growing around the world that of rights all trading nations and particularly the creativity and of an country 's own citizens 
 u.s. trade negotiators argue that countries with inadequate for rights could be hurting themselves by discouraging their own scientists and authors and by u.s. high-technology firms from investing or marketing their best products there 
 mrs. hills south korea for creating an task force and special enforcement teams of police officers and prosecutors trained to pursue movie and book 
 seoul also has instituted effective procedures to aid these teams she said 
 taiwan has improved its standing with the u.s. by a copyright agreement its trademark law and introducing legislation to protect foreign movie producers from unauthorized of their films 
 that measure could taipei 's growing number of small to pay movie producers for showing their films 
 saudi arabia for its part has vowed to enact a copyright law compatible with international standards and to apply the law to computer software as well as to literary works mrs. hills said 
 these three countries are n't completely off the hook though 
 they will remain on a list that includes other countries 
 those countries including japan italy canada greece and spain are still of some concern to the u.s. but are deemed to pose problems for american patent and copyright owners than those on the priority list 
 gary hoffman a washington lawyer specializing in cases said the threat of u.s. combined with a growing recognition that protecting intellectual property is in a country 's own interest prompted the improvements made by south korea taiwan and saudi arabia 
 what this tells us is that u.s. trade law is working he said 
 he said mexico could be one of the next countries to be removed from the priority list because of its efforts to craft a new patent law 
 mrs. hills said that the u.s. is still concerned about disturbing developments in turkey and continuing slow progress in malaysia 
 she did n't elaborate although earlier u.s. trade reports have complained of videocassette in malaysia and for u.s. pharmaceutical patents in turkey 
 the trade act requires mrs. hills to issue another review of the performance of these countries by april 
 so far mrs. hills has n't deemed any cases bad enough to merit an accelerated investigation under the so-called special provision of the act 
 argentina said it will ask creditor banks to its foreign debt of $ billion the in the developing world 
 the declaration by economy minister is believed to be the first time such an action has been called for by an official of such 
 the latin american nation has paid very little on its debt since early last year 
 argentina to reach a reduction of N in the value of its external debt mr. said through his spokesman 
 mr. met in august with u.s. assistant treasury secretary david mulford 
 negotiator carlos was in washington and new york this week to meet with banks 
 mr. recently has said the government of president carlos who took office july feels a significant reduction of principal and interest is the only way the debt problem may be solved 
 but he has not said before that the country wants half the debt 
 during its centennial year the wall street journal will report events of the past century that stand as milestones of american business history 
 three computers that changed the face of personal computing were launched in 
 that year the apple ii commodore pet and tandy came to market 
 the computers were crude by today 's standards 
 apple ii owners for example had to use their television sets as screens and data on 
 but apple ii was a major advance from apple i which was built in a garage by stephen and steven jobs for such as the computer club 
 in addition the apple ii was an affordable $ 
 crude as they were these early pcs triggered explosive product development in desktop models for the home and office 
 big mainframe computers for business had been around for years 
 but the new pcs unlike earlier types such as the and had and could store about two pages of data in their memories 
 current pcs are more than times faster and have memory capacity times greater than their counterparts 
 there were many pioneer pc 
 william gates and paul allen in developed an early system for pcs and gates became an industry billionaire six years after ibm adapted one of these versions in 
 alan f. currently chairman of seagate technology led the team that developed the disk drives for pcs 
 dennis and dale two atlanta engineers were of the internal that allow pcs to share data via the telephone 
 ibm the world leader in computers did n't offer its first pc until august as many other companies entered the market 
 today pc shipments annually total some $ billion world-wide 
 & co. an australian pharmaceuticals company said its inc. affiliate acquired inc. for $ million 
 is a new pharmaceuticals concern that sells products under the label 
 said it owns N of 's voting stock and has an agreement to acquire an additional N 
 that stake together with its convertible preferred stock holdings gives the right to increase its interest to N of 's voting stock 
 oil production from australia 's bass fields will be raised by barrels a day to about barrels with the launch of the field the first of five small fields scheduled to be brought into production before the end of 
 esso australia ltd. a unit of new york-based exxon corp. and broken hill operate the fields in a joint venture 
 esso said the field started production tuesday 
 output will be gradually increased until it reaches about barrels a day 
 the field has reserves of million barrels 
 reserves for the five new fields total million barrels 
 the and fields are expected to start producing early next year and the and fields later next year 
 esso said the fields were developed after the australian government decided in to make the first million barrels from new fields free of tax 
 corp. said it completed the $ million sale of its southern optical subsidiary to a group led by the unit 's president thomas r. sloan and other managers 
 following the acquisition of by a buy-out group led by shearson lehman hutton earlier this year the maker of decided to itself of certain of its businesses 
 the sale of southern optical is a part of the program 
 the white house said president bush has approved duty-free treatment for imports of certain types of watches that are n't produced in significant quantities in the u.s. the virgin islands and other u.s. 
 the action came in response to a petition filed by inc. for changes in the u.s. system of preferences for imports from developing nations 
 previously watch imports were denied such duty-free treatment 
 had requested duty-free treatment for many types of watches covered by different u.s. tariff 
 the white house said mr. bush decided to grant duty-free status for categories but turned down such treatment for other types of watches because of the potential for material injury to watch producers located in the u.s. and the virgin islands 
 is a major u.s. producer and seller of watches including watches assembled in the philippines and other developing nations covered by the u.s. tariff preferences 
 u.s. trade officials said the philippines and thailand would be the main beneficiaries of the president 's action 
 imports of the types of watches that now will be eligible for duty-free treatment totaled about $ million in a relatively small share of the $ billion in u.s. watch imports that year according to an aide to u.s. trade representative carla hills 
 magna international inc. 's chief financial officer james mcalpine resigned and its chairman frank is stepping in to help turn the manufacturer around the company said 
 mr. will direct an effort to reduce overhead and curb capital spending until a more satisfactory level of profit is achieved and maintained magna said 
 stephen currently vice president finance will succeed mr. mcalpine 
 an ambitious expansion has left magna with excess capacity and a heavy debt load as the automotive industry enters a downturn 
 the company has reported declines in operating profit in each of the past three years despite steady sales growth 
 magna recently cut its quarterly dividend in half and the company 's class a shares are far below their 52-week high of canadian dollars us$ 
 on the toronto stock exchange yesterday magna shares closed up canadian cents to c$ 
 mr. founder and controlling shareholder of magna resigned as chief executive officer last year to seek unsuccessfully a seat in canada 's parliament 
 analysts said mr. wants to resume a more influential role in running the company 
 they expect him to cut costs throughout the organization 
 the company said mr. will personally direct the restructuring by president and chief executive 
 neither they nor mr. mcalpine could be reached for comment 
 magna said mr. mcalpine resigned to pursue a consulting career with magna as one of his clients 
 lord chairman of english china plc was named a nonexecutive director of this british chemical company 
 japanese investors nearly bought up two new mortgage mutual funds totaling $ million the u.s. federal national mortgage association said 
 the purchases show the strong interest of japanese investors in u.s. instruments fannie mae 's chairman david o. maxwell said at a news conference 
 he said more than N of the funds were placed with japanese institutional investors 
 the rest went to investors from france and hong kong 
 earlier this year japanese investors snapped up a similar $ million mortgage-backed securities mutual fund 
 that fund was put together by blackstone group a new york investment bank 
 the latest two funds were assembled jointly by goldman sachs & co. of the u.s. and japan 's daiwa securities co 
 the new seven-year funds one offering a fixed-rate return and the other with a floating-rate return linked to the london interbank offered rate offer two key advantages to japanese investors 
 first they are designed to eliminate the risk of prepayment mortgage-backed securities can be retired early if interest rates decline and such prepayment forces investors to their money at lower rates 
 second they channel monthly mortgage payments into semiannual payments reducing the administrative burden on investors 
 by addressing those problems mr. maxwell said the new funds have become extremely attractive to japanese and other investors outside the u.s. 
 such devices have boosted japanese investment in mortgage-backed securities to more than N of the $ billion in such instruments outstanding and their purchases are growing at a rapid rate 
 they also have become large purchasers of fannie mae 's corporate debt buying $ billion in fannie mae bonds during the first nine months of the year or almost a of the total amount issued 
 james l. executive vice president was named a director of this oil concern expanding the board to members 
 ltv corp. said a federal bankruptcy court judge agreed to extend until march N the period in which the steel aerospace and energy products company has the exclusive right to file a reorganization plan 
 the company is operating under chapter of the federal bankruptcy code giving it court protection from creditors ' lawsuits while it attempts to work out a plan to pay its debts 
 italian chemical giant montedison through its montedison acquisition n.v. indirect unit began its $ tender offer for all the common shares outstanding of erbamont n.v. a maker of pharmaceuticals incorporated in the netherlands 
 the offer advertised in today 's editions of the wall street journal is scheduled to expire at the end of november 
 montedison currently owns about N of erbamont 's common shares outstanding 
 the offer is being launched to a previously announced agreement between the companies 
 japan 's reserves of gold convertible foreign currencies and special drawing rights fell by a hefty $ billion in october to $ billion the finance ministry said 
 the total marks the sixth consecutive monthly decline 
 the downturn reflects the intensity of bank of japan intervention since june when the u.s. currency temporarily surged above the yen level 
 the announcement follows a sharper $ billion decline in the country 's foreign reserves in september to $ billion 
 pick a country any country 
 it 's the latest investment craze sweeping wall street a rash of new closed-end country funds those publicly traded portfolios that invest in stocks of a single foreign country 
 no fewer than country funds have been launched or registered with regulators this year triple the level of all of according to charles e. simon & co. a washington-based research firm 
 the turf recently has ranged from chile to to portugal 
 next week the philippine fund 's launch will be capped by a visit by philippine president aquino the first time a head of state has kicked off an issue at the big board here 
 the next province 
 anything 's possible how about the new guinea fund george foot a managing partner at management associates of mass 
 the recent explosion of country funds the closed-end fund mania of the 1920s mr. foot says when narrowly focused funds grew wildly popular 
 they fell into after the crash 
 unlike traditional mutual funds most of these portfolios are the closed-end type issuing a fixed number of shares that trade publicly 
 the surge brings to nearly the number of country funds that are or soon will be listed in new york or london 
 these funds now account for several billions of dollars in assets 
 people are looking to stake their claims now before the number of available nations runs out says michael porter an analyst at smith barney harris upham & co. new york 
 behind all the is some competition 
 as individual investors have turned away from the stock market over the years securities firms have scrambled to find new products that brokers find easy to sell 
 and the firms are stretching their far and wide to do it 
 financial planners often urge investors to diversify and to hold a of international securities 
 and many emerging markets have more mature markets such as the u.s. and japan 
 country funds offer an easy way to get a taste of foreign stocks without the hard research of seeking out individual companies 
 but it does n't take much to get burned 
 political and currency gyrations can the funds 
 another concern the funds ' share prices tend to swing more than the broader market 
 when the stock market dropped nearly N oct. for instance the mexico fund plunged about N and the spain fund fell N 
 and most country funds were clobbered more than most stocks after the crash 
 what 's so wild about the funds ' frenzy right now is that many are trading at historically fat premiums to the value of their underlying portfolios 
 after trading at an average discount of more than N in late and part of last year country funds currently trade at an average premium of N 
 the reason share prices of many of these funds this year have climbed much more sharply than the foreign stocks they hold 
 it 's probably worth paying a premium for funds that invest in markets that are partially closed to foreign investors such as south korea some specialists say 
 but some european funds recently have skyrocketed spain fund has surged to a startling N premium 
 it has been targeted by japanese investors as a good long-term play tied to 's european economic integration 
 and several new funds that are n't even fully invested yet have jumped to trade at big premiums 
 i 'm very alarmed to see these rich says smith barney 's mr. porter 
 the newly premiums reflect the increasingly global marketing of some country funds mr. porter suggests 
 unlike many u.s. investors those in asia or europe seeking exposure may be less to paying higher prices for country funds 
 there may be an international viewpoint cast on the funds listed here mr. porter says 
 nonetheless plenty of u.s. analysts and money managers are at the trading levels of some country funds 
 they argue that u.s. investors often can buy american depositary receipts on the big stocks in many funds these so-called adrs represent shares of foreign companies traded in the u.s. 
 that way investors can essentially buy the funds without paying the premium 
 for people who insist on jumping in now to buy the funds 's mr. foot says the only advice i have for these folks is that those who come to the party late had better be ready to leave quickly 
 the u.s. and soviet union are holding technical talks about possible repayment by moscow of $ million in russian debts owed to the u.s. government the state department said 
 if the debts are repaid it could clear the way for soviet bonds to be sold in the u.s. 
 however after two meetings with the soviets a state department spokesman said that it 's too early to say whether that will happen 
 with the talks the state department said it has permitted a soviet bank to open a new york branch 
 the branch of the bank for foreign economic affairs was approved last spring and opened in july 
 but a soviet bank here would be unless moscow found a way to settle the $ million debt which was lent to the country 's short-lived democratic government before the communists seized power in 
 under a law the johnson debt default act as amended it 's illegal for americans to extend credit to countries in default to the u.s. government unless they are members of the world bank and international monetary fund 
 the u.s.s.r. belongs to neither organization 
 moscow has settled debts with other countries in recent years at less than face value 
 the state department stressed the debts as the key to satisfying the johnson act 
 but the soviets might still face legal obstacles to raising money in the u.s. until they settle hundreds of millions of dollars in additional debt still outstanding from the world war ii program 
 in another reflection that the growth of the economy is off the government said that orders for manufactured goods and spending on construction failed to rise in september 
 meanwhile the national association of purchasing management said its latest survey indicated that the manufacturing economy contracted in october for the sixth consecutive month 
 its index inched up to N in october from N in september 
 any reading below N suggests the manufacturing sector is generally declining 
 the purchasing managers however also said that orders turned up in october after four months of decline 
 factories booked $ billion in orders in september nearly the same as the $ billion in august the commerce department said 
 if not for a N surge in orders for capital goods by defense contractors factory orders would have fallen N 
 in a separate report the department said construction spending ran at an annual rate of $ billion not significantly different from the $ billion reported for august 
 private construction spending was down but government building activity was up 
 the figures in both reports were adjusted to remove the effects of usual seasonal patterns but were n't adjusted for inflation 
 kenneth economist for society corp. a cleveland bank said demand for exports of factory goods is beginning to off 
 at the same time the drop in interest rates since the spring has failed to revive the residential construction industry 
 what sector is stepping forward to pick up the slack he asked 
 i draw a blank 
 by most measures the nation 's industrial sector is now growing very slowly if at all 
 factory fell in september 
 so did the federal reserve board 's index 
 yet many economists are n't predicting that the economy is about to slip into recession 
 they cite a lack of imbalances that provide early warning signals of a downturn 
 inventories are closely watched for such clues for instance 
 economists say a buildup in inventories can cutbacks in production that can lead to a recession 
 but yesterday 's factory orders report had good news on that front it said factory inventories fell N in september the first decline since february 
 this to the soft landing scenario said elliott an economist at donaldson lufkin & jenrette securities corp 
 i do n't see any signs that inventories are excessive 
 a soft landing is an economic slowdown that inflation without leading to a recession 
 the department said orders for goods those intended to last fewer than three years fell N in september to $ billion after climbing N the month before 
 orders for durable goods were up N to $ billion after rising N the month before 
 the department previously estimated that orders fell N in september 
 factory shipments fell N to $ billion after rising N in august 
 shipments have been relatively level since january the commerce department noted 
 manufacturers ' backlogs of unfilled orders rose N in september to $ billion helped by strength in the defense capital goods sector 
 excluding these orders backlogs declined N 
 in its construction spending report the commerce department said residential construction which accounts for nearly half of all construction spending was off N in september to an annual rate of $ billion 
 david economist for the mortgage bankers association predicted the drop in interest rates eventually will boost spending on single-family homes but probably not until early next year 
 spending on private construction was off N to an annual rate of $ billion with no sector showing strength 
 government construction spending rose N to $ billion 
 after adjusting for inflation the commerce department said construction spending did n't change in september 
 for the first nine months of the year total construction spending ran about N above last year 's level 
 the government 's construction spending figures contrast with a report issued earlier in the week by mcgraw-hill inc. 's dodge group 
 dodge reported an N increase in construction contracts awarded in september 
 the counts money as it is spent dodge counts contracts when they are awarded 
 the government includes money spent on residential dodge does n't 
 although the purchasing managers ' index continues to indicate a slowing economy it is n't an imminent recession said robert chairman of the association 's survey committee and director of materials management at pitney bowes inc. stamford conn 
 he said the index would have to be in the low N range for several months to be considered a forecast of recession 
 the report offered new evidence that the nation 's export growth though still continuing may be slowing 
 only N of the purchasing managers reported better export orders in october down from N in september 
 and N said export orders were down last month compared with N the month before 
 the managers ' report also added evidence that inflation is under control 
 for the fifth consecutive month purchasing managers said prices for the goods they purchased fell 
 the decline was even than in september 
 they also said that vendors were delivering goods more quickly in october than they had for each of the five previous months 
 economists consider that a sign that pressures are 
 when demand is stronger than suppliers can handle and delivery times prices tend to rise 
 the purchasing managers ' report is based on data provided by more than purchasing executives 
 each of the survey 's indicators the difference between the number of purchasers reporting improvement in a particular area and the number reporting a worsening 
 for the first time the october survey polled members on imports 
 it found that of the N who import N said they imported more in october and N said they imported less than the previous month 
 while acknowledging one month 's figures do n't prove a trend mr. said it does lead you to suspect imports are going down or at least not increasing that much 
 items listed as being in short supply numbered only about a dozen but they included one milk and milk 
 it 's an odd thing to put on the list mr. noted 
 he said that for the second month in a row food processors reported a shortage of dry milk 
 they blamed increased demand for dairy products at a time of exceptionally high u.s. exports of dry milk coupled with very low import quotas 
 in new york contributed to this article 
 here are the commerce department 's figures for construction spending in billions of dollars at seasonally adjusted annual rates 
 here are the commerce department 's latest figures for manufacturers in billions of dollars seasonally adjusted 
 judging from the in 's a wild sheep chase pages $ baby boomers on both sides of the pacific have a lot in common 
 although set in japan the novel 's is almost entirely western especially american 
 characters drink dogs b. and watch bugs bunny reruns 
 they read and talk about and 
 they worry about their careers drink too much and suffer through broken and affairs 
 this is japan 
 for an american reader part of the of this engaging novel should come in recognizing that japan is n't the society of contemporary american 
 it 's also to read a japanese author who clearly does n't belong to the school of writers who the notion of the unique japanese by outsiders 
 if a wild sheep chase carries an implicit message for international relations it 's that the japanese are more like us than most of us think 
 that 's not to say that the plot of a wild sheep chase is rooted in reality 
 it 's and often funny 
 a hero sets off for snow country in search of an sheep with a star on its back at the of a with a stanford degree 
 he has in his girlfriend whose sassy mark her as anything but a 
 along the way he meets a christian who offers the hero god 's phone number and the sheep man a sweet figure who wears what else a 
 the 40-year-old mr. is a publishing in japan 
 a more recent novel norwegian wood every japanese under seems to be in has sold more than four million copies since published it in 
 but he is just one of several writers tokyo 's pack who are the charts in japan 
 their books are written in contemporary language and usually carry hefty of 
 in robert 's you have macmillan pages $ the give way to baseball in the version we would be hard put to call a game 
 as mr. describes it baseball is a mirror of japan 's of hard work and harmony 
 is japanese for team spirit and japanese have miles and miles of it 
 a player 's commitment to practice and team image is as important as his average 
 polls once named tokyo giants star a soul as the male symbol of japan 
 but other than the fact that is played with a ball and a bat it 's fans return balls to stadium the strike zone depending on the size of the ties are permitted even welcomed since they the shame of defeat players must by strict rules of conduct even in their personal lives players for the tokyo giants for example must always wear ties when on the road 
 you have is the often amusing of how american to two per team fare in japan 
 despite the enormous sums of money they 're paid to stand up at a japanese plate a good number decide it 's not worth it and run for home 
 funny business pages $ by gary is anything but 
 it 's the complaint of an american whom sony for a year while he was on a in tokyo to the regret of both parties 
 in sometimes amusing more often even vicious mr. describes how sony even the most mundane aspects of its workers ' lives at the office where employees are assigned lunch partners and at home in the company run by a 
 some of his about japanese management style are on the mark 
 it 's probably true that many put in overtime just for the of solidarity that the system is so that only the assistant manager can talk to the manager and the manager to the general manager and that sony was of letting a young short-term american employee take on any responsibility 
 all of this must have been frustrating to mr. who went to sony with degrees in business and computer science and was to another 
 but sony ultimately took a lesson from the american management books and fired mr. after he committed the social crime of making an appointment to see the venerable founder of sony 
 it 's a shame their meeting never took place 
 mr. certainly would have learned something and it 's even possible mr. would have too 
 ms. the journal 's deputy editorial features editor worked in tokyo for three years 
 more and more corners of the globe are becoming free of tobacco smoke 
 in singapore a new law requires smokers to put out their cigarettes before entering restaurants department stores and sports centers or face a $ fine 
 and private clubs are exempt from the ban and smoking will be permitted in bars except during hours an official said 
 singapore already bans smoking in all theaters buses public elevators hospitals and fast-food restaurants 
 in malaysia a deputy minister in the prime minister 's office launched a week at the institute of technology near kuala lumpur and urged other schools to ban smoking 
 south korea has different concerns 
 in seoul officials began visiting about cigarette to remove illegal and advertising imported cigarettes 
 south korea has opened its market to foreign cigarettes but restricts advertising to designated places 
 a marketing study indicates that hong kong consumers are the most in the major markets where the survey was carried out 
 the study by the backer spielvogel bates ad agency also found that the colony 's consumers feel more pressured than those in any of the other surveyed markets which include the u.s. and japan 
 the survey found that nearly half of hong kong consumers what it identified as values compared with about one-third in japan and the u.s. 
 more than three in five said they are under a great deal of stress most of the time compared with less than one in two u.s. consumers and one in four in japan 
 the cabinet endorsed finance minister 's proposal to build a $ million conference center for a joint meeting of the world bank and international monetary fund two years from now 
 the meeting which is expected to draw to was going to be held at the central plaza hotel but the government balked at the hotel 's conditions for undertaking necessary expansion 
 a major concern about the current plan is whether the new center can be built in such a short time 
 arafat has written to the chairman of the international olympic committee asking him to back a palestinian bid to join the committee the liberation organization news agency said 
 an official of the palestinian olympic committee said the committee first applied for membership in and renewed its application in august of this year 
 the plo in recent months has been trying to join international organizations but failed earlier this year to win membership in the world health organization and the world tourism organization 
 a beijing assistant has become the first chinese to get aids through sex the people 's daily said 
 it said the man whom it did not name had been found to have the disease after hospital tests 
 once the disease was confirmed all the man 's associates and family were tested but none have so far been found to have aids the newspaper said 
 the man had for a long time had a chaotic sex life including relations with foreign men the newspaper said 
 the polish government increased home electricity charges by N and doubled gas prices 
 the official news agency said the increases were intended to bring low energy charges into line with production costs and compensate for a rise in coal prices 
 in news south korea in establishing diplomatic ties with poland yesterday announced $ million in loans to the financially strapped warsaw government 
 in a victory for environmentalists hungary 's parliament terminated a multibillion-dollar river dam being built by firms 
 the dam was designed to be with another dam now nearly complete miles in czechoslovakia 
 in ending hungary 's part of the project parliament authorized prime minister to modify a agreement with czechoslovakia which still wants the dam to be built 
 mr. said in parliament that czechoslovakia and hungary would suffer environmental damage if the were built as planned 
 czechoslovakia said in may it could seek $ billion from hungary if the contract were broken 
 the dam ca n't be operated solely at peak periods without the project 
 a painting by august set a price record when it sold at auction in stockholm for $ million 
 ii was painted in oils by the playwright in 
 after years of decline in france showed a N last year with more couples in than in the previous year the national statistics office said 
 but the number of last year was still well below the registered in the last year of increasing 
 ltd. said it agreed to issue million canadian dollars us$ million of N senior debentures due nov. N together with bond purchase warrants 
 the toronto-based real estate concern said each bond warrant the holder to buy c$ principal amount of debentures at par plus accrued interest to the date of purchase 
 the warrants expire nov. N 
 the issue will be into fixed-rate u.s. dollars at a rate the company said is less than N a spokesman declined to elaborate 
 lead underwriters for the issue are inc. and dominion securities inc. both toronto-based investment dealers 
 said it expects to complete the issue by the end of the month 
 as an actor charles lane is n't the of charlie 's spirit 
 steve martin has already laid his claim to that 
 but it is mr. lane as movie director producer and writer who has been with 's little tramp in a contemporary way 
 in as a film student at the purchase campus of the state university of new york mr. lane shot a place in time a black-and-white film about a artist a man of the streets 
 now years later mr. lane has revived his artist in a movie called sidewalk stories a piece of work about a tramp 
 of course if the film contained dialogue mr. lane 's artist would be called a homeless person 
 so would the little tramp for that matter 
 i say contained dialogue because sidewalk stories is n't really silent at all 
 marc a college friend of mr. lane 's who earns his living playing the double bass in classical music has prepared an exciting score that tells you what the characters are thinking and feeling far more precisely than or even words would 
 much of mr. lane 's film takes a highly view of life on the streets though probably no more than mr. 's notion of the tramp as the free spirit 
 in lovely black and white by bill the new york streets of sidewalk stories seem benign 
 on wall street men and women walk with great purpose one another only when they for 
 the artist hangs out in greenwich village on a strip of sixth avenue by and other 
 this clearly is not real life no crack dealers no men selling four-year-old copies of no one up in a box 
 the artist has his routine 
 he spends his days or trying to 
 at night he returns to the building he calls home 
 his life including his with a competing artist seems 
 he is his own man 
 then just as the tramp is given a blind girl to cure in city lights the artist is put in charge of returning a whose father has been murdered by to her mother 
 this child turns out to be a blessing and a 
 she gives the artist a sense of purpose but also him to the serious of his life 
 the at the mission seem far when he has to a little girl into one of them at night 
 to further load the stakes mr. lane up a highly for the artist with a young woman who owns her own children 's shop and who lives in an expensive apartment building 
 this story line might more strongly if mr. lane had as strong a presence in front of the camera as he does behind it 
 mr. lane 's final purpose is n't to the artist 's existence 
 he has a point he wants to make and he makes it with a great deal of force 
 the movie ends with sound the sound of street people talking and there is n't anything or in those rough beaten voices 
 the french film maker has managed another kind of weird achievement with his story of women 
 he has made a harsh brilliant picture one that 's about a character who viewed from the most sympathetic would seem 
 yet this woman carries historical significance both as one of the last women to be executed in france and as a symbol of the government 's 
 while with the germans during world war ii in the deaths of thousands of resistance and its officials needed a 
 a was their woman 
 she became an and continued because it enabled her to buy cocoa and other 
 she was and in one job killed a client 
 her was and brief 
 although she was kind and to her children she was to her husband she openly brought her into their home 
 as presented by mr. and played with intensity by called in the film was not a nice person 
 but she did n't deserve to have her head off 
 there is very little to recommend old a confused of the carlos novel of the mexican revolution 
 most of the picture is taken up with endless scenes of many people either fighting or eating and drinking to victory 
 i mention the picture only because many bad movies have a bright spot and this one has gregory peck in a loose and energetic portrayal of an old man who wants to die the way he wants to die 
 video tip before seeing sidewalk stories take a look at city lights 's tramp at his 
 boeing co. said it is discussing plans with three of its regular japanese suppliers to possibly help build a larger version of its popular 
 the discussions are still in preliminary stages and the specific details have n't been worked out between the seattle aerospace company and heavy industries ltd. mitsubishi heavy industries ltd. and fuji heavy industries ltd 
 the three japanese companies build the body sections of the accounting for a combined N of the aircraft 
 japanese press reports have speculated that the japanese contribution could rise to between N and N under the new program 
 if boeing goes ahead with the larger the plane could hit the market in the mid-1990s 
 this is the year the negative ad for years a secondary presence in most political campaigns became the main event 
 the irony is that the attack commercial after getting a boost in last year 's presidential campaign has come of age in an election year with only a few scattered across the country 
 but in the three leading political of the negative ads have reached new levels of raising fears that this kind of empty of significant issues is in a new era of campaigns without content 
 now says joseph a pioneer in political television the idea is to attack first last and always 
 a trend that started with the first of politics accelerated with the of the television age and became a art form in has reached an entirely new stage 
 to get people 's attention these days says douglas a political consultant your tv ad needs to be bold and entertaining and more often than not that means 
 and unlike a few years ago you do n't even have to worry whether the ad is 
 in as often as not the principal fights in the major campaigns are prompted by the ads themselves 
 take a look then at the main attack commercials that set the tone for tuesday 's elections in new york city new jersey and virginia 
 new york city 
 the screen with a small tight shot of david dinkins democratic candidate for mayor of new york city 
 david dinkins failed to file his income taxes for four straight years says a male voice 
 and then this television commercial paid for by republican rudolph giuliani 's campaign and produced by roger the master of negative tv ads really gets down to business 
 mr. dinkins the ad charges also failed to report his campaign contributions accurately his links to a failing insurance company and paid a convicted through a phony organization with no members no receipts and no office 
 david dinkins says the why does he always wait until he 's caught 
 nasty says john mr. dinkins 's issues director designed to a case of political corruption that simply does n't exist 
 by the giuliani ads mr. dinkins 's tv consultants robert and david finally a negative ad of their own 
 the screen shows two distorted photos presumably of two politicians 
 compare two candidates for mayor says the announcer 
 one says he 's for banning bullets 
 the other has opposed a ban on bullets 
 one claims he 's pro-choice 
 the other has opposed a woman 's right to choose 
 funny thing says the both these candidates are named rudolph giuliani 
 who 's telling the truth 
 everybody and nobody 
 it 's a classic situation of ads that are true but not always fully accurate 
 mr. dinkins did fail to file his income taxes for four years but he insists he voluntarily admitted the oversight when he was being considered for a city job 
 he was on the board of an insurance company with financial problems but he insists he made no secret of it 
 the city 's campaign finance board has refused to pay mr. dinkins $ in matching funds because his campaign records are incomplete 
 the campaign has blamed these reporting problems on computer errors 
 and says mr. dinkins he did n't know the man his campaign paid for a effort had been convicted of 
 but say mr. dinkins 's managers he did have an office and his organization did have members 
 mr. giuliani 's campaign chairman peter powers says the dinkins ad is deceptive 
 the other side he argues knows giuliani has always been pro-choice even though he has personal reservations 
 they know he is generally opposed to bullets but that he had some reservations about the language in the legislation 
 virginia 
 democratic gov. douglas wilder opened his gubernatorial battle with republican marshall coleman with an abortion commercial produced by frank that analysts of every political agree was a tour de force 
 against a shot of on an american flag an announcer talks about the strong tradition of freedom and individual liberty that have for generations 
 then just as an image of the of thomas jefferson from the screen the announcer continues on the issue of abortion marshall coleman wants to take away your right to choose and give it to the politicians 
 that commercial which said mr. coleman wanted to take away the right of abortion even in cases of rape and incest a charge mr. coleman denies changed the dynamics of the campaign it at least in part into a on abortion 
 the ad prompted mr. coleman the former virginia attorney general to launch a series of advertisements created by bob goodman and designed to shake mr. wilder 's support among the very women who were attracted by the abortion ad 
 the coleman featured a of a young woman in and the ad suggested that she was an courtroom 
 a voice says now do n't you have 
 then an announcer it was douglas wilder who introduced a bill to force rape victims age and younger to be about their private lives by lawyers for accused 
 so the next time mr. wilder talks about the rights of women ask him about this law he tried to pass 
 mr. wilder did introduce such legislation years ago but he did so at the request of a a common legislative technique used by lawmakers 
 the legislation itself noted that it was introduced by request and in mr. wilder introduced a bill to protect rape victims from 
 people have grown tired of these ads and coleman has gotten the of being a negative says mark a political scientist at mary washington college 
 wilder has managed to get across the idea that coleman will say anything to get elected governor and more important has been able to put the for all the negative on coleman 
 mr. coleman said this week that he would devote the remainder of the political season to positive but the truce lasted only hours 
 by tuesday night television stations were carrying new ads featuring mr. coleman himself raising questions about mr. wilder 's to rape victims 
 new jersey 
 the attacks began when democratic rep. james florio aired an ad featuring a drawing of and a photograph of mr. florio 's rival republican rep. jim courter 
 remember says a female voice 
 consider jim courter 
 and then this commercial produced by bob gets down to its own mean and business 
 pictures of oil into focus and the female voice that hazardous waste on his mr. courter 's property the neighbors are suing for consumer fraud 
 and the nose on mr. courter 's face grows 
 the only fraud involved cry mr. courter 's is the florio commercial itself and so the courter campaign has responded with its own commercial produced by mr. 
 in this one the screen with photographs of both candidates 
 who 's really lying asks a female voice 
 florio 's lying the voice goes on because the barrel on courter 's land contained heating oil was up and caused no pollution 
 mr. courter 's long nose while mr. florio 's grows 
 who 's telling the truth 
 stephen a political scientist at new jersey 's institute says it 's another example of an ad that 's true but not fully accurate 
 barrels were dumped on the courter property a complaint was made but there is no evidence the barrels were a serious threat to the environment 
 even so according to mr. the ad was devastating because it raised questions about mr. courter 's credibility 
 but it 's building on a long tradition 
 in on route to a re-election rout of democrat frank gop gov. nelson rockefeller of new york appeared in person saying if you want to keep the crime rates high is your man 
 a seat on the chicago board of trade was sold for $ down $ from the previous sale last friday 
 seats currently are quoted at $ bid and $ asked 
 the record price for a full membership on the exchange is $ set aug. N 
 japanese investment in southeast asia is the region toward economic integration 
 interviews with analysts and business people in the u.s. suggest that japanese capital may produce the economic cooperation that southeast asian politicians have pursued in fits and starts for decades 
 but japan 's power in the region also is fears of domination and fresh policy questions 
 the flow of japanese funds has set in motion a process these economies will be together by the great japanese investment machine says robert vice chairman of goldman sachs international corp 
 in the past five years japanese companies have tripled their commitments in asia to $ billion 
 in thailand for example the government 's board of investment approved $ million of japanese investment in N times the u.s. investment figure for the year 
 japan 's commitment in southeast asia also includes steep increases in foreign assistance and trade 
 asia 's other countries are following japan 's lead and pumping capital into the region 
 in taiwan and south korea rising wages are forcing manufacturers to seek other overseas sites for production 
 these nations known as asia 's little also are contributing to southeast asia 's integration but their influence will remain subordinate to japan 's 
 for countries such as thailand and malaysia the investment will provide needed jobs and spur growth 
 but asian nations ' harsh memories of their military domination by japan in the early part of this century make them fearful of falling under japanese economic now 
 because of budget constraints in washington the u.s. encourages japan to share economic burdens in the region 
 but it yielding political ground 
 in the coming decade analysts say relations will be tested as tokyo comes to terms with its new status as the region 's economic 
 japan 's swelling investment in southeast asia is part of its economic evolution 
 in the past decade japanese manufacturers concentrated on domestic production for export 
 in the 1990s spurred by rising labor costs and the strong yen these companies will increasingly turn themselves into with plants around the world 
 to capture the investment southeast asian nations will move to accommodate japanese business 
 these nations ' internal decisions will be made in a way not to their largest aid largest private investor and largest lender says richard director of the international business and research program at the university of southern california 's graduate school of business 
 japanese money will help turn southeast asia into a more economic region 
 but analysts say asian cooperation is n't likely to parallel the european common market approach 
 rather japanese investment will spur integration of certain sectors says kent a specialist in east asian economies at the wilson school for public and affairs at princeton university 
 in electronics for example a japanese company might make television picture in japan the sets in malaysia and export them to indonesia 
 the effect will be to pull asia together not as a common market but as an integrated production zone says goldman sachs 's mr. 
 countries in the region also are beginning to consider a for closer economic and political ties 
 the economic and foreign ministers of asian and pacific nations will meet in australia next week to discuss global trade issues as well as regional matters such as transportation and telecommunications 
 participants will include the u.s. australia canada japan south korea and new zealand as well as the six members of the association of southeast asian nations thailand malaysia singapore indonesia the philippines and 
 in addition the u.s. this year offered its own plan for cooperation around the pacific in a major speech by secretary of state james baker following up a proposal made in january by australian prime minister bob 
 the baker proposal washington 's intention to continue playing a leading political role in the region 
 in asia as in europe a new order is taking shape mr. baker said 
 the u.s. with its regional friends must play a crucial role in designing its architecture 
 but maintaining u.s. influence will be difficult in the face of japanese dominance in the region 
 japan not only the u.s. in investment flows but also it in trade with most southeast asian countries although the u.s. remains the leading trade partner for all of asia 
 moreover the japanese government now the world 's largest aid is pumping far more assistance into the region than the u.s. is 
 while u.s. officials voice optimism about japan 's role in asia they also convey an of caution 
 there 's an understanding on the part of the u.s. that japan has to expand its functions in asia says j. michael undersecretary of commerce for trade 
 if they approach it with a attitude there will be a net gain for everyone 
 some asian nations are about washington 's demand that tokyo step up its military spending to ease the u.s. security burden in the region 
 the issue is further complicated by uncertainty over the future of the u.s. 's leases on military bases in the philippines and by a possible u.s. troop reduction in south korea 
 many regard a u.s. presence as a desirable to japanese influence 
 no one wants the u.s. to pick up its and go home mr. says 
 for their part taiwan and south korea are expected to step up their own investments in the next decade to try to slow the japanese 
 they do n't want japan to the region and it up says lee professor of east asian politics at the university of pennsylvania 
 rice could hardly believe her eyes 
 while giving the comprehensive test of basic skills to ninth at greenville high school last march she spotted a student looking at sheets 
 she had seen cheating before but these notes were 
 a is an example of a profession in trade and finance 
 at the end of world war ii germany surrendered before japan 
 the conference committee is used when a bill is passed by the house and senate in different forms 
 virtually word for word the notes matched questions and answers on the section of the test the student was taking 
 in fact the student had the answers to almost all of the questions in that section 
 the student surrendered the notes but not without a protest 
 my teacher said it was ok for me to use the notes on the test he said 
 the teacher in question was nancy yeargin considered by many students and parents to be one of the best at the school 
 confronted mrs. yeargin admitted she had given the questions and answers two days before the examination to two geography classes 
 she had gone so far as to display the questions on an overhead and the answers 
 mrs. yeargin was fired and prosecuted under an unusual south carolina law that makes it a crime to breach test security 
 in september she pleaded guilty and paid a $ fine 
 her alternative was days in jail 
 her story is partly one of personal 
 she was an teacher who won and inspired students but she will probably never teach again 
 in her wake she left the and anger of a principal who was her friend and now calls her a of colleagues who say she brought them shame of students and parents who defended her and insist she was treated and of officials stunned that despite the nature of her actions she became something of a local 
 mrs. yeargin 's case also some light on the dark side of school reform where pressures on teachers are growing and where testing has enhanced the temptation to 
 the statute mrs. yeargin violated was designed to enforce provisions of south carolina 's laws 
 prosecutors alleged that she was trying to bolster students ' scores to win a bonus under the state 's education improvement act 
 the bonus depended on her ability to produce higher scores 
 there is incredible pressure on school systems and teachers to raise test scores says walt an education professor and testing specialist at boston college 
 so efforts to beat the tests are also on the rise 
 term bonds due are n't being formally reoffered 
 they carry a N coupon 
 term bonds due are N securities priced at par 
 st. johns river water management district fla. $ of land acquisition revenue bonds series due N and tentatively priced by a smith barney harris upham & co. group to yield from N in to about N in 
 there are $ million of N term bonds due priced at N to yield about N 
 the $ of term bonds due and the $ of term bonds due are n't being formally reoffered 
 serial bonds were priced at par to yield to N in 
 the bonds are insured and rated triple-a by moody 's and s&p 
 federal home loan mortgage corp. $ million of remic mortgage securities being offered in classes by salomon brothers inc 
 the offering series is backed by freddie mac N securities 
 separately $ million of freddie mac remic mortgage securities is being offered in classes by kidder peabody & co 
 the offering series is backed by freddie mac N securities 
 according to available details yields range from N a spread of basis points over three-year treasury securities to N a spread of basis points over 20-year treasurys 
 the offerings bring freddie mac 's remic issuance to $ billion and its total volume to $ billion since the program began in february 
 european investment bank agency billion lire of N bonds due nov. N priced at N to yield N less full fees via lead manager banco commercial  
 fees N 
 ibm international finance u.s. parent million european currency units of N bonds due nov. N priced at N to yield N at the recommended reoffered price of par via banque paribas capital markets 
 societe generale australia ltd french parent million australian dollars of N bonds due nov. N priced at to yield less fees via  banking corp 
 guaranteed by societe generale 
 fees N 
 mitsubishi trust & banking corp japan million swiss francs of privately placed convertible notes due march N with a fixed N coupon at par via union bank of switzerland 
 put option on march N at a fixed N to yield N 
 callable from march N at N declining two points  to par 
 each swiss franc note is convertible from  N to march N at a premium over the closing share price oct. when terms are scheduled to be fixed 
 also the company issued million marks of convertible bonds with an indicated N coupon due march N at par via    bank 
 put on march N at an indicated to yield N 
 call option beginning march N if the price of the stock rises more than N within trading days as well as a call option for tax reasons 
 each mark and mark bond is convertible from nov. N to march N at a price to be determined when terms are fixed oct. 
 airlines system sweden million swiss francs of N bonds due nov. N priced at N to yield N via union bank of switzerland 
 call from nov. N at N declining point a year 
 federal home loan mortgage corp. $ million of 10-year debentures with a coupon rate of N priced at par 
 the debentures callable at par in five years were priced at a yield spread of about basis points above the treasury 10-year note 
 the issue is being sold through freddie mac 's  securities selling group 
 the debentures mature oct. N 
 the debentures will be available in  form only in a minimum amount of $ and additional  of $ 
 interest will be paid  
 first they get us to buy computers so we can get more information 
 then the computers give us more information than we can ever read 
 now they plan to sell us products that  through all the information to give us what we really want to know 
 the products range from  personal newsletters to systems that sit inside a personal computer and pick stories on selected topics off news wires 
 news is what people want says   editor of release an industry newsletter that spots new developments 
 most people read times more than necessary in order to find out what they really need 
   who dropped out of high school back in the 1970s to manage a computer network at a california research firm says old network hands have started to turn off the network because they do n't have time to wade through the  
 mr.  has started a menlo park calif. company called  technology that provides human editors for public electronic networks 
 i see it as a  treatment plant he says 
 a new product  carries five business news wires simultaneously into a user 's computer and  and  whenever an article appears that is of interest to the user 
 the product developed by desktop data corp. a new company based in  mass.  the wires looking for articles that contain key words specified by the user 
 one early user david  a chicago venture capitalist and investor in desktop data says he uses it to track takeover developments 
 he says he told  to look for stories containing such words as takeover acquisition acquire lbo tender merger junk and halted 
 i 'm pretty confident i 'm catching everything he says 
 is  $ a year for a limited version $ a year if the cost of all the news wires is included 
 and it works best in  personal computers 
 but some investors and consultants who have tried it are enthusiastic 
 jeffrey  editor of  a  mass. industry newsletter says i 've seen a lot of people  around on the  of  information 
 this is the first time i 've seen something i could imagine a lot of people using 
 uses an fm radio band to carry news wires provided by reuters mcgraw-hill and dow jones & co. as well as   which carries corporate press releases 
 an fm receiver attached to a user 's personal computer receives the information 
 some organizations have devised their own systems to sort through news wire items as they come in 
 george  an account manager at royal bank of canada adapted a lotus development corp. program called agenda to sort through international news wires 
 it automatically  stories from particular countries for reading by the international bankers responsible for lending in those areas 
 for those who do n't need their  information moment by moment some services are offering overnight newsletters 
 individual inc. a new company in  mass. uses  technology developed by cornell university computer scientist gerard  to automatically produce  newsletters it sends electronically to subscribers by a.m. the next day 
 we are operating an information refinery that takes a broad stream of raw data and turns it into  knowledge says   founder and president 
 the daily newsletter which is n't widely available yet will have a base cost of $ a year and provides full text of relevant articles under license agreements with reuters  hill united press international two press release news wires and japan 's  news service 
 one early user is nec corp. 's u.s. printer marketing arm 
 they want the full press releases on printer announcements by their competition mr.  says 
 it also tracks personnel and financial announcements by nec 's distributors and customers 
 individual inc. 's technology goes beyond word searches by using a computerized  
 if a customer asks for stories about ibm the computer will also supply stories that mention  international business machines or big blue mr.  says 
 moreover individual inc. 's computers can weigh the value of an article based on how closely the story matches the subscriber 's interest area 
 it compares the position of key words in the story words in the headline or first  get a higher value 
 and it  how often the words appear in the story compared with how often they appear in the entire data base 
 the higher the ratio of hits to total words the higher the presumed value to the reader 
 pinpoint information corp.  va. a producer of $   newsletters about the computer industry that started full operation last month relies on human readers to code news releases by topic in order to select items for each subscriber 
 the computers find all the key words they can but the editors confirm every one 
 computer picking is n't perfect says   president and founder of pinpoint 
 the humans also write  of articles from some computer industry publications 
 once all the articles are  and put in a data base pinpoint 's computers pick the most relevant for each subscriber and lay them out in a  newsletter format each newsletter is sent directly from the computer to the subscriber 's fax machine 
 mr.  says each of his computers can produce and send about unique newsletters a night 
 many computer network users who never see news wires would like to sort through their electronic mail automatically 
 so-called  is the collection of    technical data schedules and  distributed over local and national computer networks 
 all these  computers make it difficult to sort out what 's junk and what 's important says chuck  a former lotus development executive who has started a new company to cope with the problem 
 mr.  says his firm beyond inc. has licensed technology known as information lens from massachusetts institute of technology and plans to develop it for commercial use 
 the mit project devised ways for  to be automatically  as top priority if it comes from certain designated  or requires action in the next couple of days 
 mr.  says that beyond will  the product so the message will be smart enough to know to come back and bother you again next week 
 and if a user is busy he can set it for crisis mode do n't bother me with reports until monday 
 a program called notes which is under development by lotus also is designed to sort  sent within work groups 
 one thing that makes  difficult to  through is that each item looks the same 
 notes which is designed for advanced computers that display graphics allows mail  to put different  on their mail 
 a daily news briefing from the company  for example would have a distinctive format on the screen just as a paper version would have 
 with  you do n't have the  clues of paper says mr.  the editor of  
 with notes they 're  distinct 
 dean witter reynolds inc. lost its second recent arbitration case involving a former  executive 
 a new york stock exchange arbitration panel ordered dean witter to pay $ in back bonuses to william kelly the company 's former head of high-yield high-risk junk-bond trading and sales 
 it also awarded $ in back bonuses to former trader michael  and $ in fees to the two men 's attorneys 
 the sums awarded to messrs. kelly and  represent bonuses the two men said they  from the first half of but which were n't paid because of a dispute over an incentive contract 
 jeffrey l.  the two men 's attorney at   finkelstein & robinson said mr. kelly began working at dean witter in 
 mr. kelly built the company 's high-yield bond group which has been a minor player in the junk-bond arena 
 dean witter lost a separate case involving a former bond executive earlier this year in august it paid $ in back pay and a bonus to a former  trading chief harold  
 that award ended a dispute between dean witter and mr.  over who was responsible for certain  losses around the time of the stock-market crash 
 a spokesman for dean witter a unit of sears roebuck & co. declined to comment 
 department stores inc. said it offered $ million of N debentures due at par 
 the little rock  department-store retailer said proceeds will be used to reduce short-term debt 
 goldman sachs & co. was the underwriter 
 american brands inc. said third-quarter net income rose N reflecting strong gains in its tobacco and  spirits businesses 
 the company which also has businesses in life insurance office products and hardware and  products said net income rose to $ million or $ a share from $ million or $ a share a year earlier 
 year-earlier results for the quarter and the nine months were restated to reflect a change in accounting standards 
 revenue declined N to $ billion from $ billion because of the sale of  life in march and the impact of the stronger u.s. dollar on overseas results 
 operating profit for world-wide tobacco products rose N to $ million 
 for  spirits operating profit rose N to $ million 
 in the first nine months net rose N to $ million or $ a share from $ million or $ a share a year earlier 
 the year-earlier period included $ million or cents a share from discontinued operations 
 revenue rose to $ billion from $ billion 
 the average number of shares outstanding rose N in the third quarter but was down N for the nine months 
 in composite trading on the new york stock exchange american brands shares rose $ to $ 
 santa fe pacific pipeline partners limited partnership of los angeles increased its quarterly cash dividend to cents a unit from cents payable nov. to units of record oct. 
 the company is an independent  pipeline serving six western states 
 washington lies low after the stock market 's roller-coaster ride 
 lawmakers  by charges that some of their comments contributed to the crash generally shy away from calls for sweeping new legislation 
 but a house energy and commerce subcommittee will  sec chairman breeden wednesday and treasury secretary brady will go before the senate banking panel thursday 
 the market 's wild week may speed along the  legislation that has been pending for months in the aftermath of the crash 
 it may also  the sec 's modest pending changes in junk-bond disclosure rules and intensify the treasury 's look at plans for giving new tax breaks on dividends and raising taxes on short-term trades by pension funds 
 brady and breeden work well together on the plunge despite the fact that the treasury secretary opposed breeden 's nomination to the sec post 
 baker  in the mideast amid israeli  and palestinian politics 
 despite seeing his plan for  elections  the cautious secretary of state is so far unwilling to cut u.s. economic or military aid to force israeli cooperation 
 baker nonetheless remains  both at shamir for backing down on the elections and at shamir 's rival  for political  in forcing a  cabinet vote on baker 's plan 
 meanwhile some u.s. officials fear plo chief arafat is getting cold feet and may back off from his recent  and  of terrorism 
 he is under intense fire from other palestinian groups  is pushing   whose terrorist band is blamed for the pan am  as an alternative to arafat 
   on the budget and capital gains hurt him in congress 
 republicans as well as democrats were angered by the budget director 's rejection of speaker foley 's effort to  a  measure by  it of the capital-gains tax cut as well as pet democratic projects 
 darman now blames the clash on  but house gop leader  who carried the offer to him observes i was speaking english at the time and quite loud so i could be understood 
 senate gop leader dole  the budget chief on the senate floor 
 democratic counterpart mitchell asked to interpret darman 's threat to make permanent the across-the-board gramm-rudman cuts that took effect this week says i do n't even bother to interpret them 
 but darman suggests such  will  quickly 
 if i can show signs of maturity almost anybody can he jokes 
 hhs officials expect secretary sullivan to continue a ban on research using  tissue 
 before he was confirmed sullivan said he had reservations about any blanket  on medical research 
 but now an official says he is surrounded by  who contend that any  in fetal-tissue research could increase the demand for abortions 
 cooperation  on weapons development between the u.s. and europe 
 britain france and italy pull out of a proposal to build new nato  the u.s. and west germany have each withdrawn from missile projects 
 defense experts say joint projects are increasingly squeezed by budget pressures and the desire to save domestic jobs some also fear rising  as european unity  
 both sides now 
 virginia gop  governor candidate   tries to have it both ways on the abortion issue 
 though she opposes abortion in almost all cases she  a tv commercial using pro-choice  
 a woman ought to have a choice in cases where her life or health are in danger and in cases of rape or incest she  
 hot topic 
 interest in the abortion issue is so great that the  a daily  political newsletter comes up with a spinoff product called the abortion report dealing solely with its political implications 
 conservatives expect bush to  their majority on a key court 
 bush has three  to fill on the prestigious d.c. circuit court which handles many important regulatory issues and is often considered a  for future supreme court  
 conservatives now hold only a edge 
 one  is expected to go to  chairman  thomas a black conservative after  a fight liberals now probably wo n't put up a major struggle against him 
 other conservatives thought to be on the administration 's short list include washington lawyer michael  who was passed over for the no. job at the justice department and marshall  chairman of a u.s. agency on administration 
 the bush administration would also like to  a woman one possibility is former justice department official   
 minor  
 in the wake of the failed panama coup a   appears  would have got him 
 rep. garcia on trial for bribery and  puts statements in the congressional record  missed votes to scheduling conflicts 
 a gop senate fund-raising letter from sen. burns of  is made to appear personally written and its opening line is please excuse my  
 but burns  in an interview that 's not my  
 shipping inc. new york declared an initial quarterly of cents a share payable nov. to shares of record oct. 
 the announcement boosted the  company 's shares which closed at $ up $ a share in composite trading on the american stock exchange 
 the company which went public in may intends to pay dividends from available cash flow the amount may vary from quarter to quarter 
 ever since the  contested america 's cup race last year the famous  match has run into more rough sailing out of the water than in it 
 now that a key member of the san diego  club team is splitting off to form his own team even more competition lies ahead 
 peter isler the winning  in the past two america 's cup challenges has split from the team led by dennis conner skipper of the  stars &  to form his own team for the next contest in 
 and in addition to a crack team of  mr. isler has lined up some real  to help him finance the syndicate 
 isler sailing international 's advisory board includes ted turner turner broadcasting chairman and a former cup victor peter g.  head of  communications and joseph b.  chairman and chief executive of  inc 
 tokyo 's nikkei index of stocks jumped points to close at 
 the rise came a day after the year 's biggest drop on monday when the nikkei fell or N in response to friday 's N plunge on wall street 
 in early trading wednesday in tokyo the nikkei index rose points to 
 on tuesday the  tokyo stock price index of issues listed in the first section which fell monday rose or N to 
 trading was relatively thin at an estimated million shares though  than monday 's million 
 advancing issues outnumbered decliners with unchanged 
 we 're back to square one said simon  an analyst in japan for kleinwort benson international inc 
 japanese domestic institutions including trust banks and investment management firms that had been on the sidelines during monday 's fall were back in the market analysts said 
 foreign investors reportedly started off selling but later joined in the buying 
 the tokyo rally seemed to confirm the view frequently expressed in japan in the past few days that the drop in new york was a local problem related to merger and acquisition activity in the u.s. 
 this time we do n't really have to worry about tokyo said an official at daiwa securities co 
 nothing has changed fundamentally in the tokyo market 
 but even though tokyo appears  by recent market volatility analysts and traders say there are still a few concerns on the horizon 
 in national over-the-counter trading mci fell $ to $ 
 charles  an analyst with smith barney harris upham & co. said some investors apparently expected slightly better revenue growth 
 the company said that residential traffic grew faster than business traffic and attributed that to its new  calling plan that competes with american telephone & telegraph 's reach out america plan 
 mci claims about N of the overall long-distance telephone market but just under N of the $ billion residential market 
 it has been trying to improve its share of the residential market 
 the company wants its business mix to more closely match that of at&t a step it says will help prevent cross  
 mr.  said mci recorded another solid cash positive quarter its fourth in a row but declined to comment on whether the company is considering a dividend or is planning any acquisition 
 the current quarter he said looks fine 
 we think revenue will continue to grow and that we can control costs and thus improve profitability 
 southwestern bell corp 
 southwestern bell corp. said net dropped N mainly the result of four extraordinary items a franchise tax refund that its southwestern bell telephone co. unit received last year a production shift of several yellow pages  to the fourth quarter from the third a rate refund in missouri and a one-time adjustment to phone company revenues 
 revenue slipped N to $ billion from $ billion 
 the earnings drop had been expected 
 chairman  e.  said southwestern bell 's businesses are healthy and are continuing to grow 
 the company reported a N increase in the number of access lines in service and also said its southwestern bell mobile systems unit added new customers with a current total of about 
 southwestern shares fell cents to $ in composite trading on the new york stock exchange 
 cincinnati bell inc 
 cincinnati bell inc. said net declined N 
 the company noted that the year-ago period was particularly strong with an increase of nearly N 
 revenue jumped nearly N to $ million from $ million 
 in composite trading on the new york stock exchange cincinnati bell fell cents to $ 
 the company said that the number of access lines dropped slightly in the quarter a decline attributed to seasonal fluctuations 
 for the year however access lines in service have increased N 
 chairman   said the company has set a new five year goal of doubling revenues to about $ billion while steadily increasing net 
 rockwell international corp. 's  unit said it signed a tentative agreement extending its contract with boeing co. to provide structural parts for boeing 's  
 rockwell said the agreement calls for it to supply additional so-called  for the planes 
 these include among other parts each jetliner 's two major  a pressure floor  box fixed leading  for the wings and an   beam 
 under the existing contract rockwell said it has already delivered of the  to boeing 
 rockwell based in el  calif. is an aerospace electronics automotive and graphics concern 
 frank  iii was named to this telecommunications company 's board filling the vacancy created by the death of william  last may 
 mr.  years old served as defense secretary in the reagan administration 
 in january he accepted the position of vice chairman of  group a merchant banking concern 
 shearson lehman hutton inc 
 thomas e.  years old was named president and chief operating officer of  co. a  ill. subsidiary of this new york investment banking firm 
 which has interests in real estate said the position is newly created 
 mr.  had been executive vice president of  
 in addition to his previous real-estate investment and  duties mr.  takes responsibility for development and property management 
 those duties had been held by van  who resigned as an executive vice president 
 shearson is about  by american express co 
 great american bank citing depressed arizona real estate prices posted a third-quarter loss of $ million or $ a share 
 a year earlier the savings bank had earnings of $ million or cents a share 
 for the nine months it had a loss of $ million or $ a share after earnings of $ million or $ a share in the period 
 great american said it increased its loan-loss reserves by $ million after reviewing its loan portfolio raising its total loan and real estate reserves to $ million 
 before the loan-loss addition it said it had operating profit of $ million for the quarter 
 the move followed a round of similar increases by other lenders against arizona real estate loans reflecting a continuing decline in that market 
 in addition to the increased reserve the savings bank took a special charge of $ million representing general and administrative expenses from staff reductions and other matters and it posted a $ million reduction in expected mortgage  fees reflecting the fact that more borrowers are  their mortgages 
 arbitragers were n't the only big losers in the collapse of ual corp. stock 
 look at what happened to ual 's chairman stephen m. wolf and its chief financial officer john c. pope 
 on a day some united airlines employees wanted mr. wolf fired and takeover stock speculators wanted his  messrs. wolf and pope saw their prospective personal fortunes continue to plummet as shares of ual united 's parent company  $ on the big board to close at $ 
 including monday 's plunge that has given the two executives paper losses of $ million based on what they would have realized had the pilots and management-led buy-out of ual gone through at $ a share 
 when bank financing for the buy-out collapsed last week so did ual 's stock 
 even if the banks  a financing package at $ a share the two executives would still get about $ million less than they stood to gain in the initial transaction 
 mr. wolf owns ual shares and has options to buy another at $ each 
 in the $ 300-a-share  that totaled about $ million 
 by yesterday 's close of trading it was good for a  $ million 
 of course mr. wolf years old has some savings 
 he left his last two jobs at republic airlines and flying tiger with combined  gains of about $ million and ual gave him a $ million bonus when it hired him 
 his salary was $ with a $ bonus 
 the  old mr. pope has n't changed jobs enough at least the right ones to  away that kind of money 
 united paid him a $ bonus to lure him away from american airlines and he was paid a salary of $ last year with a $ bonus 
 mr. pope owns ual shares and has options to buy another at $ each 
 that came to a combined $ million under the $ 300-a-share buy-out but just $ million at yesterday 's close 
 of the combined $ million the two men were scheduled to reap under the buy-out they agreed to invest in the buy-out just $ million  many of the thousands of workers asked to make pay concessions so the buy-out would be a success 
 united 's directors voted themselves and their spouses lifetime access to the friendly  free  travel and $ a year for life as well 
 in a  buy-out they could be  back to coach seats for life 
 thomas h. johnson president of the  division of mead corp. was named president of manville forest products corp. a manville unit and senior vice president of manville corp 
 mr. johnson succeeds harry w. sherman who resigned to pursue other interests in both positions 
 manville is a building and forest products concern 
 us facilities corp. said robert j.  agreed to step down as vice chairman of the insurance holding company 
 there was a difference of opinion as to the future direction of the company a spokeswoman said 
 mr.  declined to comment 
 in a statement us facilities said mr.  's employment contract calls for him to act as a consultant to the company for two years 
 he will also remain a director us facilities said but wo n't serve on any board committees 
 mr.  will be succeeded on an interim basis by george  us facilities chairman and president 
 in the same statement us facilities also said it had bought back of its common shares in a private transaction 
 terms were n't disclosed 
 the buy-back represents about N of the company 's shares based on the million shares outstanding as of sept. 
 in national over-the-counter trading yesterday us facilities closed at $ unchanged 
 three leading drug companies reported robust third-quarter earnings bolstered by strong sales of newer   drugs that provide hefty profit margins 
 merck & co. reported a N increase in earnings warner-lambert co. 's profit rose N and eli lilly & co. 's net income rose N 
 the results were in line with analysts ' expectations 
 merck & co 
 merck  n.j. continued to lead the industry with a strong sales performance in the human and animal  segment 
 a stronger u.s. dollar reduced third-quarter and  sales growth N and N respectively 
 international sales accounted for N of total company sales for the nine months compared with N a year earlier 
 sales for the quarter rose to $ billion from $ billion 
 merck 's new  drug had higher sales than any other prescription medicine has ever achieved in the u.s. in the year following introduction the company said 
 the drug was introduced in west germany this year 
 intense competition however led to unit sales declines for a group of merck 's established human and  products including  and  
 in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday merck shares closed at $ up cents 
 warner-lambert co 
 warner-lambert morris plains n.j. reported sales that were a record for any quarter and the eighth quarter in a row of N or more per-share earnings growth 
 spurred by growth in world-wide sales of the company 's prescription drugs warner-lambert said will be the best year in its history with per-share earnings expected to increase more than N to about $ 
 sales for the quarter rose to $ billion from $ billion 
 world-wide sales rose N in the quarter to $ million u.s. sales rose N 
 the segment 's growth was led by sales of the cardiovascular drugs  a  regulator and  a  channel  
 world-wide sales of warner-lambert 's  health-care products such as halls cough    and  skin  increased N to $ million in the third quarter u.s. sales rose N 
 products sales also had strong growth in the quarter 
 world-wide sales of  gum  breath  and  gum and breath  increased N to $ million 
 warner-lambert shares closed at $ a share up $ in big board composite trading yesterday 
 eli lilly & co 
 lilly attributed record third-quarter and nine-month results to world-wide gains for pharmaceuticals medical instruments and  products despite poor exchange rates for the dollar that slowed sales abroad 
 earnings continued to pace sales because of a lower tax rate profit from the  of the debt instrument received from faberge inc. in connection with lilly 's sale of elizabeth  inc. in and net proceeds from the settlement of patent litigation at lilly 's  inc. unit 
 third-quarter sales of the indianapolis ind. company rose N to $ billion from $ million 
 nine-month sales grew N to $ billion from $ billion a year earlier 
 sales of  an  led  increases 
 higher sales of pesticides and other  products more than offset a slight decline in the sales of  products to fuel the increase in world-wide agricultural product sales lilly said 
 advanced cardiovascular systems inc. and   inc. units led growth in the  systems division 
 lilly shares closed yesterday in composite trading on the big board at $ down cents 
 mark chairman of colgate-palmolive co. said he is comfortable with analysts ' estimates that third-quarter earnings rose to between cents and $ a share 
 that compares with per-share earnings from continuing operations of cents the year earlier including discontinued operations per-share was cents a year ago 
 the per-share estimates mean the consumer-products company 's net income increased to between $ million and $ million from $ million the  period 
 analysts estimate colgate 's world-wide third-quarter sales rose about N to $ billion 
 mr. mark attributed the earnings growth to strong sales in latin america asia and europe 
 results were also bolstered by a very meaningful increase in operating profit by colgate 's u.s. business mr. mark said 
 operating profit at colgate 's u.s. household products and  businesses jumped N in the quarter mr. mark added 
 he said the improvement was a result of cost savings achieved by consolidating manufacturing operations  two sales organizations and focusing more carefully the company 's promotional activities 
 the estimated improvement in colgate 's u.s. operations took some analysts by surprise 
 colgate 's household products business which includes such brands as   detergent and   has been a weak performer 
 analysts estimate colgate 's sales of household products in the u.s. were flat for the quarter and they estimated operating margins at only N to N 
 if you could say their business in the u.s. was  but great everywhere else that would be fine says  austin an analyst with wertheim schroder & co 
 but it 's not  it 's a real problem 
 mr. mark conceded that colgate 's domestic business apart from its highly profitable hill 's pet products unit has lagged 
 we 've done a lot to improve u.s. results and a lot more will be done mr. mark said 
 improving profitability of u.s. operations is an extremely high priority in the company 
 to focus on its global consumer-products business colgate sold its  health-care business in 
 h. anthony  was elected a director of this company which primarily has interests in radio and television stations increasing the number of seats to five 
 also operates   entertainment properties and small  systems 
 mr.  is executive special projects at  group holdings inc. which is controlled by manufacturers hanover corp 
 the boston globe says its newly  pages have a  look with revamped  aimed at making the paper more consistent and easier to read 
 maybe so if you can find where your favorite writer went 
   who spare no  when taking on local  such as michael    or new england  coach raymond rev. ray berry yesterday poured  on new drawings of globe  that replaced old photos in the revamped pages this week 
 by late last night globe managing editor thomas   to the will of his troops scrapped the new drawings 
 for a few days at least he says no pictures or drawings of any kind will  the columns 
 trouble was nobody thought they looked right 
 globe columnist mike  in the second attack on his employer in as many weeks  that his   was so bad it looked like a face you 'd find on a bottle of   that promises to do away with  in our lifetime 
 mr.  reminded readers that he still has n't  globe management for questioning a $ expense  he submitted for parking his car while chasing a story 
 i thought the drawing a cross between someone you 'd spot  open his   or a guy who  he 'd been charles  's  for the last years he said 
 mr.  was hardly  to the  of colleagues michael  appears to be a  will mcdonough looks as if he drove for  lincoln or  english whose little girl now   every time she sees a newspaper 
 lynn  the globe 's assistant managing editor for design acknowledges that the  were on the low end of the  spectrum 
 rival boston herald columnist  carr who usually  at   and  argued that the new drawings were designed to hide mr.  's rapidly growing  and the  defects of  dan  a globe sports columnist 
 but think of the money you the reader will save on halloween said mr.  
 instead of buying  for your kids just cut out the  ' pictures 
 deeply  in both the book review  nature  by stephen macdonald leisure & arts sept. and the books reviewed is the assumption that global warming is entirely a result of human activity 
 is such a view justified 
 in the absence of humans would the earth enjoy a constant climate over the long term 
 clearly not 
 about years ago the last ice age ended 
 enormous ice sheets retreated from the face of north america northern europe and asia 
 this global warming must have been entirely natural nobody would blame it on a few hundred thousand  hunting  and  around in  
 furthermore no bell has yet  to announce the end of this  episode of natural global warming 
 it is probably continuing and may well account for most of or all of  global warming 
 i  to no one in my regard for our  heritage but if we are serious about global warming we must look at the big picture and not allow the dominant culture to lock us into the  warming scenario as the sole model for discussion 
   department university of 
 the internal revenue service plans to restructure itself more like a private corporation 
 in addition the  agency says that it will take the unusual step of looking to the private sector to fill two new  positions to guide the  agency a comptroller to oversee daily finances and a chief information officer to update the information system which includes probably the largest computer data base in the world 
 the irs also said that it would create the position of chief financial officer who will be hired from within the agency 
 irs commissioner fred t. goldberg said the changes are intended to bring accountability to the agency which has an annual budget of more than $ billion and  about $ trillion a year 
 my assessment and everyone 's assessment is that we do not have the kinds of information that let us  and effectively  and execute our budget mr. goldberg said 
 and we do n't have internal controls and discipline that we need to have to spend $ billion properly 
 mr. goldberg who took over as head of the irs in july has been  by what he considers the  waste and lack of coordination among the branches of the vast federal agency 
 the irs operates on a computer system designed in which it has been trying to modernize for years 
 and the agency which operated throughout fiscal with a $ million budget  has been under a hiring freeze since last fall 
 the new commissioner says that closer scrutiny of how the agency uses its resources will go a long way toward  its ability to collect more tax revenue 
 i think that you will see a significant improvement in the budget  and execution process which in turn i believe will result in a significant increase in revenue he said 
 the irs hopes to fill the new positions soon 
 it would  career civil  from within the agency but mr. goldberg said he plans to  the world for the chief information officer and the comptroller 
 although the jobs will probably pay between $ and $ a year irs officials are confident that they can attract  candidates from the private sector 
 you 're telling someone they can spend the next three or four or five or six years of their life bringing about the most difficult and costly modernization of an information system on the civil side ever mr. goldberg said 
 on the comptroller side you 're developing and making work financial controls governing a $ billion budget 
 when    the leader of the  coup in panama was buried his body  several   a   and broken  and  
 they were the signature of his adversary panamanian leader manuel antonio noriega 
 the rebel officer 's slow and painful death at the headquarters of panama 's   was personally  by gen. noriega says a u.s. official with access to intelligence reports 
 leaping into  sinking into  of  and  mr. noriega has put to death some of his troops involved in the coup according to u.s. officials monitoring  and   in panama city 
 he is now changing the place he  every night sometimes more than once a night 
 his meals are most often prepared by women he trusts his full-time    and her mother  
 and he is collecting the names of those who  the  to  them during their brief time in control of his headquarters 
 more enemies to be dealt with 
 in the two weeks since the  which the u.s.  backed mr. noriega has been at his most  and efficient in maintaining power 
 yet while the failed coup is a major u.s. foreign policy embarrassment it is merely the latest chapter in a  relationship between mr. noriega and washington that  back three decades 
 america 's war on the dictator over the past two years following his indictment on drug charges in february is the  of that relationship 
 before american foreign policy set out to destroy noriega it helped create him out of the  of panama 's long history of  and  
 for most of the past years the marriage was one of convenience 
 in for example when mr. noriega was both a  at an elite military academy in peru and a  for the u.s. defense intelligence agency he was  by  authorities for allegedly  and  beating a  according to a u.s. embassy cable from that period 
 the woman had nearly died 
 but u.s. intelligence rather than rein in or cut loose its new spy merely filed the report away 
 mr. noriega 's tips on emerging  at his school were deemed more important to u.s. interests 
 from that point on the u.s. would make a practice of  the panamanian 's  
 the u.s. has  and later turned against many  but none quite so  
 the  mr. noriega is n't as smooth as the shah of iran as  as nicaragua 's   as imperial as ferdinand marcos of the philippines or as bloody as  's baby   
 yet he has proved more  than any of them 
 and out of necessity the u.s. can make mistakes and still hope to remove him from power but a single error on his part could cost him his life 
 the u.s. underestimated noriega all along says  moss a former ambassador to panama 
 he has  the art of survival 
 in keeping with america 's long history of  up mr. noriega recent u.s. actions have extended rather than  his survival 
 mr. noriega might have fallen of his own weight in because of panama 's dire economic situation says mr. moss but increasing external pressure has only given him additional  for repression and a  for his own  
 if the u.s. had sat back and done nothing he might not have made it through mr. moss contends 
 perhaps most important mr. noriega 's allies have intervened to encourage in some cases to demand that the dictator maintain his grip of the  
 one colombian drug boss upon hearing in that gen. noriega was negotiating with the u.s. to abandon his command for a comfortable  sent him a     with his name 
 he is  says the rev. fernando  who has led catholic church opposition against noriega 
 the americans have left him without a way out 
 it is easy to fight when you do n't have any other option 
 his chief advantage in the fight his intimate knowledge of american ways and weaknesses 
 mr. noriega often tells friends that patience is the best weapon against the  who have a short attention span and little  for lasting confrontation 
 the u.s. discovered the young tony noriega in late when he was in his second year at the  military academy in  according to former u.s. intelligence officials 
 the contact occurred through mr. noriega 's  a panamanian diplomat based in peru named luis carlos noriega  
 luis carlos knowing that helping the americans could advance the career of any panamanian officer  tony 's reports on the leftist  he observed among his fellow students and more important among his officers and  
 a spy was born 
 it was a  experience for the  and slightly built mr. noriega who was known to his friends as cara la   face 
 born the  son of his father 's  he was raised on the mean streets of the central market district of panama city 
 tony was four years older than most of his fellow  and gained admission to the academy because his brother had  his birth certificate 
 he considered himself  superior to his   many of whom were  sons sent by their  families to the highly disciplined  academy as a sort of reform school 
 in his peaked military cap and neatly pressed  uniform noriega felt more respected and powerful than ever in his  life friends from the period say 
 he had an elegant uniform with gold  in a country where there was a  of  where officers were the elite with special privileges recalls   a fellow student in peru and a  friend 
 mr. noriega 's relationship to american intelligence agencies became  in either or intelligence officials say 
 his commanding officer at the  province garrison major  torrijos gave him an intriguing  mr. noriega would  the province 's first intelligence service 
 the spy network would serve two clients the panamanian government by monitoring political opponents in the region and the u.s. by tracking the growing communist influence in the unions organized at united fruit co. 's   in  del  and puerto  
 united fruit was one of the two largest  to panama 's national income 
 satisfying its interests was a priority for any panamanian leader 
 mr. noriega 's initial  was only $ to $ a month plus  gifts of liquor or  from the american  a former intelligence official says 
 it was modest pay by american standards but a healthy boost to his small military salary which fellow officers remember as having been $ to $ monthly 
 he did it very well recalls   a former panamanian  who managed mr. noriega and his operation 
 he started building the files that helped him gain power 
 a national guard job assumed by  noriega in as chief of the transit police in david city capital of the  province was  for an   
 by  taxi and bus drivers who needed licenses he gained a ready  of information 
 he knew which local  had been caught driving drunk which had been found with their  
 this proved particularly valuable to the panamanian government in when union leaders were planning a may day march that the government feared could turn violent 
 mr. noriega had learned that a local union leader was sleeping with the wife of his deputy 
 so he  the information on  that he distributed throughout the  city of puerto  which was ruled by united fruit co 
 the campaign so divided union leaders that the government found them far easier to control 
 it was like a play on broadway recalls mr.  
 noriega managed the whole thing 
 he was  
 noriega was an expert at  and  people 
 during his years in  however mr. noriega also revealed himself as an officer as  as he was  
   a local lawyer and human-rights monitor recalls an  noriega visiting  in their cells at the  zone garrison headquarters in david where he had his offices 
 mr. noriega would order them all to take off their clothes and run around the  naked laughing at them and then retreating to his office 
 people started wondering if something was wrong with him mr.  recalls 
 but through this period so far as the u.s. military was concerned mr. noriega was a model recruit 
 he signed up for intelligence and  training under american officers at fort  in panama in july according to a copy of a resume with details mr. noriega has since classified as secret 
 he flew to fort  n.c. in september of that year for a course in psychological operations returning to the school of the  in panama for a  course called military intelligence for officers 
 some american officers interpreted his eagerness and  as a sign of loyalty but they did so  
 he rose to chief of intelligence in panama 's   in after providing  dictator torrijos the critical support to defeat a coup attempt against him a year earlier 
 he became gen. torrijos 's  shadow and the holder of all panama 's secrets 
 mr. noriega by now a   expanded his contacts to include the cubans not to mention the  the taiwanese and any other intelligence service that came knocking 
 when u.s. diplomats complained to the cia of col. noriega 's  intelligence experts always insisted that his  was first to the americans 
 early on in the state department we took to calling him the  in  to his ability to simultaneously milk the  intelligence services of cuba and the united states recalls francis j.  who as deputy assistant secretary of state for  affairs first ran across reports about mr. noriega in 
 some of us  how our intelligence people could put so much stock in his information when he was just as close to the cubans 
 even at this early stage drugs caused additional concerns 
 during the nixon administration the drug enforcement administration became  at the extent of the  's connections to arrested drug traffickers 
 one  agent drew up a list of five options for dealing with col. noriega one of which was assassination 
 the head of the  at the time john ingersoll  the assassination plan 
 but he did fly to panama to  dictator torrijos on the drug ties of panamanian officials including mr. noriega 
 mr. ingersoll later recalled that gen. torrijos seemed afraid to act on the concerns of the u.s. 
 everybody was afraid of him mr. ingersoll says 
 mr. noriega became an even greater threat in when u.s. intelligence services discovered that he had been buying  of electronically monitored conversations from three  working for the u.s. army 's  military intelligence group 
 the tapes included  of gen. torrijos 's own phone according to american intelligence officials 
 we caught him with his hands on our   says former cia director  turner 
 for the first time the u.s. considered cutting mr. noriega from its intelligence payroll and the deliberations were intense mr. turner says 
 in the world of intelligence if you want to get information you get it from  characters 
 the question is how much you get tied in with  characters so they can  you 
 intelligence officials to this day worry whether mr. noriega sold sensitive information on the  to the cubans or others 
 mr. turner was troubled enough to cancel the u.s. contract with the  at the beginning of the carter administration 
 the u.s. soon found new cause for concern  
 prosecutors in southern florida indicted five  on charges of illegally running arms to sandinista rebels trying to  the nicaraguan government of mr.  
 they included one of mr. noriega 's  friends and business partners carlos  
 and the investigators were quickly closing in on mr. noriega himself 
 at the time though in the u.s. was once again  with its longtime latin american spy 
 mr. noriega made plans to fly to washington for a meeting with his counterpart at the pentagon 
 county and federal authorities learning that he intended to fly through miami made plans to arrest him on the  charges as soon as he hit u.s. soil 
 it was a friday in june 
 the pentagon  the plan 
 according to military officers at the time word was passed to mr. noriega by his american hosts that the police would be waiting 
 on monday u.s. officials received a routine  message from the military group  in panama 
 due to health reasons  col. noriega has elected to postpone his visit to washington it read 
 prosecutors in miami received yet another setback 
 their original indictment against mr.  the friend of mr. noriega and the other four was dismissed on a  
 but now along with  mr. noriega 's  they intended to charge mr. noriega himself on allegations that he was involved in the illegal trading of some $ million in arms 
 in january jerome sanford as assistant u.s. attorney was summoned to a meeting with a federal bureau of investigation agent assigned to the bureau of alcohol tobacco and  in miami 
 panamanian dictator torrijos he was told had granted the shah of iran  in panama as a favor to washington 
 mr. sanford was told mr. noriega 's friend mr.  would be handling the shah 's security 
 it would n't be a good idea to  him much less mr. noriega the prosecutor was told 
 after  from mr. sanford u.s. attorney jack  pleaded with justice department officials in washington to let the indictment proceed 
 unfortunately mr.  wrote in a letter those of us in law enforcement in miami find ourselves frequently attempting to enforce the laws of the united states but simultaneously being caught between foreign policy considerations over which we have no control 
 the letter along with a detailed prosecution memo sat on the desks of justice officials for months before the case died a quiet death 
 i think if we had been allowed to go ahead then we would n't have the problems we have now mr. sanford says 
 if he had been found guilty we could have stopped him 
 in august mr. noriega took over as general and  dictator of panama having  his way to the top only two years after the  death in a plane crash of his old boss  torrijos 
 soon the military became a  mafia controlling legal and illegal businesses 
 the reagan administration also put mr. noriega 's  back on the u.s. payroll 
 payments averaged nearly $ a year from the u.s. defense intelligence agency and the cia 
 although working for u.s. intelligence mr. noriega was hardly helping the u.s. exclusively 
 during the reagan years he expanded his business and intelligence contacts with the cubans and the sandinistas 
 he allegedly entered into panama 's first formal business arrangement with colombian drug bosses according to   a pilot who once worked for mr. noriega and who testified before the u.s. grand jury in miami that would ultimately  the panamanian on drug charges 
 but mr. noriega was convinced the reagan white house would n't act against him recalls his close ally jose  because he had an insurance policy his involvement with the contra rebels in nicaragua 
 mr.  says the general allowed the contras to set up a secret training center in panama 
 mr. noriega also  intelligence from his spy operation inside the nicaraguan capital of managua 
 and on at least one occasion in the spring of he helped arrange a sabotage attack on a sandinista  in nicaragua 
 although his help for the contra cause was limited it was enough to win him important  in the reagan administration says sen. patrick  a vermont democrat who then served on the senate intelligence committee 
 noriega played u.s. intelligence agencies and the u.s. government like a violin he says 
 an incident in suggested one additional means by which mr. noriega might have maintained such influence with washington by  u.s. officials 
 windsor then the ambassador to costa rica recalls being invited to panama by mr. noriega 's brother luis carlos for a weekend of deep sea fishing and quiet serious conversation on the  peninsula 
 mr. windsor notified  e. briggs the u.s. ambassador to panama of the invitation 
 briggs  mr. windsor recalls 
 he says mr. briggs told him he was being set up for a  trap in which mr. noriega would try to involve him in an  and then record the event with sound and video 
 mr. briggs on vacation after resigning his position at the national security council could n't be reached for comment 
 as mr. noriega 's political troubles grew so did his offers of assistance to the contras an apparent attempt to curry more favor in washington 
 for instance he helped steal the may panamanian elections for the ruling party 
 but just one month later he also contributed $ to a contra leader according to documents released for oliver north 's criminal trial in washington  
 yet his political setbacks mounted 
 mr. noriega was accused of ordering in the  of hugo  his most outspoken political opponent and the first man to publicly finger mr. noriega on drug trafficking charges 
 he then ousted president nicholas   a former world bank official with close ties to the u.s. after mr.  tried to create a commission to investigate the murder 
 and all the while panama 's debt problems continued to grow 
 mr. noriega was growing desperate 
 in late he made an offer he thought the u.s. could n't refuse 
 as  in a  that  government documents released for the north trial mr. noriega offered to  the sandinista leadership in exchange for a promise to help clean up noriega 's image and a commitment to lift the u.s. ban on military sales to the panamanian defense forces 
 north the document went on referring to oliver north has told noriega 's representative that u.s. law  such actions 
 the representative responded that noriega had numerous assets in place in nicaragua and could accomplish many essential things just as noriega had helped the u.s. the previous year in  up a sandinista  
 col. north  the request to his  and to assistant secretary of state  abrams who  it to secretary of state george  
 mr. noriega 's proposal was turned down 
 and mr.   told mr. abrams that the general should be told that only he could repair his  image 
 the end of the marriage was at hand 
 within weeks the  iran-contra scandal took away mr. noriega 's insurance policy 
 the death of cia director william  and resignation of oliver north allowed  political forces to gain influence 
 public protests against him were triggered in june due to charges by   his former chief of staff that mr. noriega had stolen the election and had ordered the killing of messrs.  and torrijos 
 few american officials were willing any longer to defend him 
 lawyers in miami this time working virtually without  prepared to have him indicted on drug charges in february 
 during negotiations with american officials in may over proposals to drop the u.s.  in exchange for his resignation mr. noriega often asked almost  how the americans whom he had helped for so many years could turn against him 
 now neither side the u.s. nor mr. noriega has an easy out 
 president bush has sworn to bring him to justice 
 mr. noriega believes he has n't any alternative but to continue  to power 
 it is a  battle perhaps to the death 
 in the end is mr. noriega the political equivalent of  's monster created by a  but  foreign power 
 not quite sen.  contends 
 for short-term gains people were willing to put up with him 
 that allowed him to get stronger and stronger he says 
 i do n't think we created him as much as we fed him  him and let him grow up to be big and strong 
 upjohn co. reported that third-quarter net income rose to $ million or cents a share from $ million or cents a share a year earlier 
 yesterday 's edition provided analysts ' estimates for the company when actual earnings were available 
 industrial production declined N in september reinforcing other signs that the manufacturing sector continues its slowing trend 
 the federal reserve board said output of the nation 's factories mines and utilities expanded at an annual rate of N in the third quarter substantially slower than the N annual rate in the second quarter 
 capital spending and exports which have been the driving force in this expansion are showing clear signs of having the steam taken out of them said robert  economist for northern trust co. in chicago 
 the new reports of  which were  by an earlier labor department report that manufacturing  dropped by in september give the fed another reason to further ease its grip on credit and lower interest rates 
 they need to do something about this said  harris economist at painewebber group inc 
 the fed also said u.s. industry operated at N of capacity last month down from N in august 
 measures of manufacturing activity fell more than the overall measures 
 factory output dropped N its first decline since february after having been unchanged in october 
 factories operated at N of capacity the lowest rate in more than a year and down from N in september 
 the declines mainly reflected widespread weakness in durable goods those intended to last more than three years 
 the biggest drop was recorded by primary metals producers a category that includes the steel industry 
 output of business equipment was unchanged in september 
 production of factory equipment one indication of the strength of manufacturers ' investment spending fell N 
 some economists expect further declines in investment spending 
 whenever corporate profits are weak that means capital spending is going to soften subsequently mr. harris said 
 you have n't seen the full effect of that yet 
 a decline in truck production more than offset a sharp rise in auto  the fed noted 
 analysts do n't expect the september surge in auto production to be repeated in the coming months 
 here is a summary of the federal reserve board 's report on industrial production in september 
 the figures are seasonally adjusted 
 N of the average 
 robin  president and chief executive officer of this bank holding company was elected to the additional posts of chairman president and chief executive of the company 's new england savings bank subsidiary 
 william r.  resigned those posts as well as a seat on  's board 
 is also the parent of  
 lung-cancer mortality rates for people under years of age have begun to decline federal researchers report 
 the drop is particularly large for white males although black males and white and black women also show lower mortality rates 
 a report in this week 's issue of the journal of the national cancer institute also projects that overall u.s. mortality rates from lung cancer the leading cause of cancer death should begin to drop in several years if cigarette smoking continues to  
 the report which comes years after the u.s. surgeon general issued a report warning against the dangers of smoking is the strongest indication to date that the reduction in smoking is leading to lower death rates from lung cancer 
 what this is saying is that the surgeon general 's message is having an impact said   an  at the johns hopkins school of  and public health in baltimore 
 the national cancer institute report compares mortality rates of two groups of people between the ages of and a decade apart 
 the death rate from lung cancer of white males aged to in the mid-1970s was per but the mortality rate of the same age group in the mid-1980s was a decline of N 
 measured the same way the decline for black males was N 
 the drop in mortality rates for women was less steep N for blacks and N for whites 
 the study by susan  william  and joseph  of the institute 's staff also shows that the  of lung cancer as well as the death rate declined over the decade for all groups in the age  except black men 
 although lung-cancer mortality rates are increasing for the nation as a whole the report projects that death rates will begin to decline in the 1990s for men and after the year for women 
 lung-cancer mortality rates increase with age and are continuing to rise for all age groups over with sharp increases for everybody but white men 
 but dr.  one of the authors of the report said the declining rates we 're seeing for younger people we believe may be a  of declining mortality in the future 
 however he stressed that the improvement depends on a continued reduction in smoking 
 even though these favorable trends in lung-cancer mortality affect all sex and race groups they ca n't be taken for granted the report says 
 smoking prevention programs should reach larger segments of the population especially children  and minorities 
 an editorial in the  journal says the report of declining lung-cancer mortality among young men and women in the u.s. indicates that we finally may be winning the battle this even in a country where the tobacco industry spends over $ billion a year for promotion of the  habit of smoking 
 but the editorial by jan  of the world health organization notes that tobacco consumption and lung-cancer mortality rates are rising in developing countries 
 should be established as the  of social behavior around the world the editorial says through the enactment of laws that limit advertising boost tobacco prices and promote  education 
 asked for comment walker  a vice president of the tobacco institute said new efforts to restrict tobacco advertising in the u.s. could violate the first amendment protection of free speech 
 according to the american cancer society smoking is responsible for N of the lung-cancer cases among men and N among women 
 the  report attributes the differences in mortality rates by race to different smoking patterns 
 a higher proportion of black men smoke than white men 
 while nearly equal  of black and white women currently smoke in both  more whites have given up smoking than blacks 
 in  changes in mortality rates over the past decade the  study looked only at blacks and whites 
 and native americans were n't studied hispanics were included with whites 
 recent changes in average annual  lung-cancer rates per population by race and sex 
 white males 
 white  
 black males 
 black  
 directors elected r. marvin  currently vice  supply purchasing to head the company 's washington d.c. office 
 as vice  relations mr.  will work with p&g 's top management and with the company 's  staff to represent p&g 's interests at the federal level said john g.  chairman and chief executive officer 
 mr.  said the appointment recognizes the growing influence of government on our business 
 mr.  years old has been with the big producer of household products food and pharmaceuticals for years 
 traders trying to profit from the recent volatility in financial markets  the nasdaq over-the-counter market prompting even more swings in stock prices 
 after gaining strength during a brief  when trading began the nasdaq composite index weakened under selling pressure 
 the forces at work included computer-guided trading as well as  market makers and institutional investors who had bought stock on the cheap during the recent correction 
 during the last two hours of trading the composite almost drew even on the day before slipping again 
 the nasdaq composite closed down or N to 
 the action was confined to nasdaq 's biggest and most liquid stocks traders said 
 the nasdaq index began the day at lost N at one point and was up N at another 
 the barometer of the biggest  stocks settled at off 
 its counterpart the nasdaq financial index was weak for most of the day sliding to by the end of trading 
 the volatility was dizzying for traders 
 the market must have turned up and down different times    head of otc trading at kidder peabody 
 every time you thought it was going into a rally it gave up and every time you thought it would rally it came down 
 this is a tough market 
 mr.  said the market is still settling down after the recent correction 
 most of trading action now is from professional traders who are trying to take advantage of the price swings to turn a quick profit he and other traders said 
 everybody 's confused and no one has an opinion that lasts longer than seconds said mr.  
 a lot of the professional traders are just going back and forth 
 they 're just as confused 
 william  head of otc trading at alex brown & sons in baltimore said program trading is keeping the markets unsettled 
 he believes that the volatile conditions created by program trading has  confused investors about where the market is headed 
 program trading is benefiting a few to the  of many and i wish someone would do something about it he complained 
 trading activity cooled off from monday 's  pace 
 share turnover  to million 
 advancing and declining issues finished about even 
 of the stocks that changed hands declined and advanced 
 one big technology issue  rode the roller  
 the stock which finished monday at N traded as high as N and as low as N before closing at N down 
 it was a  day for investors in genetics institute 
 the stock tumbled N on news that it might have to take a charge against earnings if it ca n't successfully resolve a dispute with its european    over its  drug epo 
 the stock recovered somewhat to finish N lower at N 
 in a statement genetics institute said the dispute with  centers on questions of the  of certain  of epo material valued at $ million 
 earlier this week genetics institute reported wider losses in its fiscal third quarter ended aug. 
 price co. jumped N to on million shares 
 the  of cash and carry merchandise reported fiscal  earnings that were better than analysts had expected 
 the company also pleased analysts by announcing four new store  planned for fiscal ending next august 
 that will bring the total for the year to from five during fiscal 
 every year we 've been waiting for  expansion from the company 
 the news could n't have been better said linda  a dean witter reynolds analyst in an interview 
 a maker of optical  devices also reported higher third-quarter earnings 
 its shares added to N 
 but favorable earnings was n't a guarantee that a stock 's price would improve yesterday 
 mci communications tumbled N to N on million shares even though the telecommunications giant reported a N increase in third-quarter profit 
 financial slipped to N in active trading after reporting that third-quarter earnings improved to $ a share from $ a share a year earlier 
 however the bank holding company 's loan-loss reserves rose to $ million from $ million a year earlier 
 brands lost to 
 but its  earnings rose to cents a share from cents a share last year 
 capital associates dropped to N 
 the company which leases technology equipment reported substantially lower net income for its fiscal first quarter which ended aug. 
 robert m.  was named president and chief operating officer of this closely held publisher 
 the post had been vacant for more than a year 
 mr.  had been executive vice president for operations 
 in addition ralph ingersoll ii chairman and chief executive said he would take on additional responsibilities as editor in chief of the company 
 john  resigned as editor in chief 
 mr. ingersoll remains editor in chief of the company 's recently launched daily the st. louis sun 
 also jean b.  was named executive vice president treasurer and chief financial officer 
 michael  resigned after less than a year in the posts 
 ms.  had been executive financial assistant to the chairman 
 certainly conservative environmentalists can defend their limited government position by  between old environmentalism and new environmentalism journalists and others for saving the planet by david brooks editorial page oct. 
 old environmentalism involved   and  
 it started with improvements in  made possible by affordable soap and  underwear during the industrial revolution 
 then   pipe and the flush toilet were followed by  and  plants toward the end of the 19th century 
 medicine in the 19th century was dedicated mostly to   and diagnostic analysis 
 then the 20th century saw the evolution of private-sector wonder drugs which  medical therapy 
 the process dramatically increased our average life  eliminated much pain and constantly improved health and  
 most  measures were handled at the local level 
 new environmentalism probably started in with the publication of  carson 's book silent spring 
 shortly thereafter  articles began to appear predicting that advanced industrial  would produce a   planet possibly by the turn of the century 
 these  predictions were advanced by such  as paul ehrlich barry    and george  
 writing in the 1960s ms. carson suggested that the human race could be eliminated in years and mr.  suggested that life on earth might end by 
 mr. ehrlich predicted unprecedented  by 
 there were many more 
 thousands of chemical products were  as  with recommendations that they be banned from industrial use because they produced malignant  in   
 unknown before were the  effects of acid rain greenhouse warming and ozone depletion all of which required  political power and  expense 
 meanwhile the new environmentalists  opposed the methods of the old environmentalists 
 local pollution problems require cheap energy and capital for their solution 
 but the new environmentalists oppose private wealth creation which they claim  natural resources and nuclear power even though it would  the greenhouse effect 
 they are in the  of opposing the search for new  and methods of  and even oppose new methods of research such as genetic engineering 
 new environmentalism is an emotional attack on proven methods of improving our quality of life and a bid for political power 
 let 's  our priorities by solving pollution problems at the local level as  
 harry lee smith   
 your story missed some essential points of the conference on the global environment are we  
 first and  the  presented by the various scientists represent a general consensus among specialists working in the respective aspects of the global environment 
 consider for example the greenhouse effect and climate change numerous  scientific committees including one from the national academy of science judge there is a greater than N probability of a grave problem in the  
 the point was to answer the question in the conference title not to try to create news stories for the event itself 
 nor was it intended to  a set of  solutions although various points were raised 
 each speaker was asked to address a specific topic not deliver a point of view 
 each scientist  concluded society and government are  when it comes to  policy change 
 this leads to a very special sense of urgency 
 if the media decide to work harder at  the public about these complex and technical issues that hardly can be termed  journalism 
 the environment can no longer be a normal issue to be dealt with on a  basis with comfortable  of change 
 we have literally altered the chemistry and physics of our planet 's atmosphere 
 this  consequences from what we have already done that will be very  to social and economic systems 
 the problems of the environment are so  so   with our current way of life and so large that it is unlikely we will be able to address them effectively unless major changes are made in less than years 
 the consensus from the scientific community is that there is sufficient evidence to advise major policy changes 
 no we are not  
 thomas e.  assistant secretary for external affairs  institution 
 coca-cola enterprises inc.  its dismal earnings forecast for said its third-quarter net income fell N on flat revenue 
 by higher marketing costs and slowing volume growth the giant coke bottling operation said net fell to $ million or six cents a share from $ million or cents a share the year earlier 
 the results met estimates of analysts who had already slashed their projections after the company said in late august that its earnings could tumble as much as N 
 a company spokesman said yesterday that coca-cola enterprises  by its forecast 
 third-quarter revenue was flat at $ billion 
 the year-ago results however included the operations of a bottling business which was sold last december 
 excluding that bottling business coca-cola enterprises ' volume measured by cases of soda rose only N 
 the volume is well below the industry 's N to N growth rate of recent years but in line with other soft-drink companies for the third quarter 
 the latest third-quarter volume also compares with a very strong N growth in the year-ago quarter 
 coca-cola enterprises blamed the lower volume on its soft-drink prices which were about N higher in the third quarter 
 consumers have been accustomed to buying  at discounted prices for several years 
 coca-cola enterprises said it had to boost spending for trade and dealer incentives to try to keep volumes from slipping 
 the company said it expects consumers will adjust to  soft drinks 
 a spokesman attributed the bulk of a N increase in selling administrative and general expenses to $ million to marketing costs 
 they 're out there promoting like crazy trying to get prices up by promotion said roy  an analyst with kidder peabody & co 
 for the nine months coca-cola enterprises ' net fell N to $ million or cents a share from $ million or cents a share 
 revenue was flat at about $ billion 
 coca-cola enterprises which is  by coca-cola co. also said it  about million of its common shares during the third quarter 
 the buy-back is part of a  repurchase plan under which coca-cola enterprises so far has acquired a total of million shares 
 separately purchase  pepsico inc. as expected said fiscal third-quarter net rose N to $ million or $ a share from $ million or cents a share 
 sales rose N to $ billion from $ billion 
 the year-ago quarter 's results include an after-tax charge of $ million from the sale of a  in spain 
 in composite trading on the new york stock exchange coca-cola enterprises closed at $ a share down cents 
 pepsico closed at $ a share up $ 
 l.j. hooker corp. is expected to reach an agreement in principle this week to sell merksamer jewelers inc. to management say executives familiar with the talks 
 l.j. hooker based in atlanta filed for chapter bankruptcy protection earlier this year 
 currently its parent company hooker corp. of sydney australia is being managed by a court-appointed  
 it is expected that ge capital corp. a financial-services subsidiary of general electric co. will provide much of the funding for the proposed leveraged buy-out of merksamer based in sacramento calif 
 a spokesman for ge capital declined to comment 
 ge capital has a working relationship with l.j. hooker 
 it is providing $ million in emergency financing to the company and has agreed to buy as much as $ million in receivables from b. altman & co. and  teller l.j. hooker 's two fully owned department-store chains 
 sam merksamer chief executive officer of the nationwide jewelry chain and sanford  chief executive of l.j. hooker corp. both declined to comment 
 currently mr. merksamer owns N of the company l.j. hooker acquired its N interest in the firm in may 
 at the time the merksamer chain had stores in operation 
 today there are units all located in shopping  
 in recent weeks mr. merksamer has approached a number of his suppliers and asked them to provide letters of intent saying they will continue shipping merchandise to the chain following the buy-out say those familiar with the situation 
 this year a number of retail leveraged  have failed causing jitters among suppliers and mr. merksamer apparently wanted assurances that he wo n't have delivery problems 
 for the year ended june N merksamer jewelers had $ million of revenue and operating profit of $ million 
 the  chain was put up for sale in june 
 according to those familiar with the situation other bidders included ratners group plc of london and  jewelers inc 
 first boston corp. is advising l.j. hooker on the sale of the merksamer business 
 merksamer was the first in a series of retail acquisitions made by l.j. hooker 
 the company was founded in sacramento in by two brothers ralph and walter merksamer who operated as  's jewelers 
 in the pair split the company in half with walter and his son sam agreeing to operate under the merksamer  name 
 the sale of merksamer jewelers is subject to approval by judge   of u.s. bankruptcy court 
 as earlier reported l.j. hooker this week received a $ million bid for its three shopping  plus other properties from a consortium led by  real-estate investor jay  and a. boyd simpson an atlanta developer and former l.j. hooker senior executive 
 the offer which did n't include the merksamer chain is being reviewed by mr.  
 robert j.  was named president and chief executive officer of this company 's  corp. unit 
 mr.  had been president and chief executive of  industries inc 
 robert h.  previous president and chief executive of  will assume the title of chairman of the unit a  maker 
 the days may be numbered for  shows featuring  the  kid and the  
 nbc a leader in morning prime-time and late night programs but an  on saturday  when children rule the tv set is contemplating getting out of the  business 
 instead network officials say it may  with shows for an audience that is virtually ignored in that time period adults 
 there is talk of some revamping and we 're certainly heading in the direction of less and less  said joseph s.  vice president of finance and administration for national broadcasting co. a unit of general electric co 
 mr.  said that nbc entertainment president   who declined to be interviewed is looking at options now and may put some things into the schedule by  
 he declined to elaborate 
 nbc 's options could range from  programming to sports shows although the network declined to comment 
 one major nbc affiliate  in sacramento plans to cancel the nbc saturday morning  as of january and replace it with a local  
 the one-hour program will be repeated with  throughout saturday  
 we feel there is an opportunity for an audience that is not being served by any network so we want to take the lead says  's general manager john  
 we do n't need  anymore 
 they only accounted for N at best of the station 's total revenues 
 an nbc spokesman says the network will closely monitor the sacramento situation and says it is the only station to  
 spokesmen for the television networks of cbs inc. and capital cities\/abc inc. say there are no plans to alter the children 's  on saturday  
 the  audience for saturday programming is no longer dependent on the networks 
 there has been a surge in syndicated children 's shows to independent stations as well as competition from  for kids and from cable outlets such as  and the disney channel 
 at the same time there appears to be a market for  programming turner broadcasting system inc. 's cable news network has its highest ratings outside of prime time on saturday  
 nbc has on previous occasions considered replacing  with a saturday version of today which is produced by nbc news 
 the network 's own production company nbc productions supplies a half-hour  show titled saved by the bell 
 nbc productions or nbc news could supply the network with other saturday morning shows a move that would control costs 
 shows which are made by outside production companies cost the network about $ per episode 
 & haas co. said third-quarter net income skidded N to $ million or cents a share 
 in the year-earlier quarter the chemicals company had net of $ million or cents a share 
 sales were $ million up N from $ million a year ago 
 & haas which plans to start operating seven new production units this year attributed the profit slide partly to higher start-up expense 
 the company also cited the stronger dollar which cuts the value of overseas profit when it is translated into dollars 
 in addition the company said it was hurt by higher than  costs for raw materials though those costs have declined since the second quarter 
 higher production of those chemicals which remain in heavy demand also has forced up costs such as overtime pay 
 for the nine months  & haas net totaled $ million or $ a share down N from $ million or $ a share a year ago 
 sales rose N to $ billion from $ billion the previous year 
 in new york stock exchange composite trading  & haas closed at $ a share down $ 
 michael a.  years old was named president and chief executive officer of this manufacturer of industrial robots succeeding walter k.  
 mr.  resigned as president and chief executive and will work on special projects said john j.  chairman 
 mr.  formerly was president and chief executive of taylor &  inc. and was a director of  robots since 
 stephen n.  was named managing director and group head of investment banking in asia based in tokyo 
 mr.  years old had been a first vice president in the industrial group in investment banking 
 he succeeds   who resigned in may 
 this is written to correct a  in your oct. article deaths from advanced colon cancer can be reduced by using two drugs 
 in this article i was alleged to have said any patient with high-risk colon cancer is really getting short  if he 's not getting this therapy 
 i did n't say this and i 'm totally opposed to the philosophy expressed by the quote 
 i have not offered and will not offer routine therapy with the two drugs  and  to any of my  patients 
 with this treatment we have reduced deaths in high-risk colon cancer by one-third but this leaves the two-thirds who are dying of cancer 
 this is not nearly good enough 
 i believe any physician who truly  about cancer patients both today and tomorrow should offer the hope of something better than that 
 my statement read  from a printed text available to all reporters attending the national cancer institute news conference was the following new clinical trials are already in operation seeking to improve these results 
 these research  offer to the patient not only the very best therapy which we have established today but also the hope of something still better 
 i feel any patient with high-risk cancer is getting short  if he is not offered this opportunity 
 we have very exciting prospects for far more impressive advances in the treatment of colon cancer during the years immediately ahead 
 this hope however will never be realized if we use  and  as a  point 
 charles g.    clinic rochester  
 the oil and auto industries united in their dislike of president bush 's proposal for cars that run on alternative fuels announced a joint research program that could turn up a  gasoline 
 officials of the big three auto makers and petroleum companies said they are setting out to find the most  fuel for reducing cities '  problems with no bias toward any fuel in particular 
 however their search notably wo n't include natural gas or pure  the two  alternative fuels in tests to be completed by next summer 
 instead the tests will focus heavily on new  of gasoline which are still undeveloped but which the petroleum industry has been touting as a solution for automobile pollution that is  urban areas 
 environmentalists criticized the program as merely a public-relations attempt to head off a white house proposal to require a million cars a year that run on  fuels by 
 while major oil companies have been  with  gasoline  for years only atlantic richfield co. is now marketing a  gasoline for older cars currently running on  fuel 
 the initial $ million research program will conduct the most extensive testing to date of   said joe  head of fuels and lubricants at general motors corp. research laboratories 
 it will compare different  of  with three  of up to N  
 a second phase of research which is still being planned will test   on newer engine technologies now being developed for use in or cars 
 there was no cost estimate for the second phase 
 the whole idea here is the automobile and oil companies have joint customers said keith  a senior vice president of technology at amoco corp 
 and we are looking for the most  way to clean up the air 
 but david  an environmental lawyer with the natural resources defense council said the research appears merely to be a way to promote  gasoline 
 oil and auto companies supported a move on capitol hill last week to gut mr. bush 's plans to require auto makers to begin selling  cars by 
 instead a house subcommittee adopted a  program that specifically   gasoline as an alternative 
 the bush administration has said it will try to  its plan when the house energy and commerce committee takes up a comprehensive clean-air bill 
 william seidman chairman of the federal deposit insurance corp. said lincoln savings & loan association should have been seized by the government in to contain losses that he estimated will cost taxpayers as much as $ billion 
 mr. seidman who has been the nation 's top bank regulator inherited the problems of lincoln based in irvine calif. after his regulatory role was expanded by the new savings-and-loan bailout law 
 he made his comments before house banking committee hearings to investigate what appears to be the biggest thrift disaster in a  industry 
 the inquiry also will cover the actions of charles keating jr. who is chairman of american continental corp. lincoln 's parent and who contributed heavily to several u.s. senators 
 mr. seidman told the committee that the resolution trust corp. the agency created to sell sick thrifts has studied lincoln 's examination reports by former regulators dating back to 
 my staff indicated that had we made such findings in one of our own institutions we would have sought an immediate  order to stop the hazardous operations mr. seidman said 
 when lincoln was seized by the government for example N of its loans or $ million were to borrowers who were buying real estate from one of american continental 's other subsidiaries according to mr. seidman 
 but the government did n't step in until six months ago when thrift officials put lincoln into conservatorship the day after american continental filed for chapter bankruptcy protection from creditors 
 the bankruptcy filing the government has charged in a $ billion civil lawsuit was part of a pattern to shift insured deposits to the parent company which used the deposits as a  for real-estate deals 
 the deposits that have been transferred to other subsidiaries are now under the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court 
 i think it 's fairly clear mr. keating knew that regulators were set to seize lincoln mr. seidman said 
 further investigation he said may result in further actions against lincoln 's executives said mr. seidman including fraud actions 
 mr. keating for his part has filed suit alleging that regulators  seized the thrift 
 leonard  an attorney in washington for mr. keating declined to comment on the hearings except to say we will be responding  in several  to each of these allegations at the appropriate time 
 lincoln 's treatment by former thrift regulators in an agency  by the new law has proved embarrassing for five senators who received thousands of dollars in campaign contributions from mr. keating 
 mr. seidman said yesterday for example that sen. dennis  d. ariz. who received $ in contributions from mr. keating  mr. seidman to request that he push for a sale of lincoln before it would be seized 
 after the government lawsuit was filed against lincoln sen.  returned the campaign contributions 
 the senator 's spokesman said yesterday that he pushed for the sale of lincoln because hundreds of arizona jobs at lincoln were on the line 
 senate banking committee chairman donald  d. mich has also returned contributions he received from mr. keating a year ago 
 sens. john glenn d. ohio john  r. ariz. and alan cranston d. calif. also received substantial contributions from mr. keating and sought to intervene on behalf of lincoln 
 house banking committee chairman henry gonzalez d. texas said sen. cranston  to appear before the house committee if necessary 
 but a committee staff member said the panel is unlikely to pursue closely the role of the senators 
 at the hearing mr. seidman said the rtc has already pumped $ million into lincoln for liquidity 
 he also held out little hope of  for purchasers of $ million in american continental subordinated debt 
 some of those  have filed a suit saying they believed they were buying  certificates of deposit 
 we have no plans at this time to pay off those notes he said 
 eastern airlines ' creditors committee unhappy with the carrier 's plans for emerging from bankruptcy-law proceedings asked its own experts to devise  approaches to a reorganization 
 representatives of the accounting firm of ernst & young and the securities firm of goldman sachs & co. hired by creditors to  on eastern 's financial plans told the committee in a private meeting yesterday that eastern 's latest plan to emerge from bankruptcy-law protection is far riskier than an earlier one which won the creditors ' approval 
 according to one person present at the meeting eastern 's new plan is financially overly optimistic 
 asked about the consultants ' reports an eastern spokeswoman said we totally disagree 
 she said they have  and made some  assumptions that make their analysis completely  
 at a later news conference here frank lorenzo chairman of eastern 's parent texas air corp. said eastern was exceeding its goals for getting back into operation and predicted it would emerge from chapter protection from creditors early next year operating with more service than it originally had scheduled 
 he insisted as he has before that creditors would be paid in full under the plan 
 mr. lorenzo made no mention of creditors ' negative response to his plan 
 we 're in the process of discussing an amended plan with the creditors and anticipate filing that amended plan shortly mr. lorenzo told reporters 
 we 're meeting and  our goals he added 
 in july eastern and its creditors agreed on a reorganization plan that called for eastern to sell $ billion in assets and to emerge from bankruptcy-law protection at two-thirds its former size 
 but after selling off pieces such as its east coast shuttle its philadelphia hub and various planes eastern hit a  block 
 it could n't sell its south american routes one of the major assets marked for disposal 
 those routes valued by the creditors ' professionals at about $ million were to be sold to amr corp. 's american airlines 
 a last-minute  in negotiations with amr over an unrelated lawsuit between american and another texas air unit caused the deal to collapse 
 eastern ultimately decided it would have to keep and operate the routes itself which would leave it with less cash for its reorganization 
 it also would leave eastern a bigger carrier than the  one proposed under the initial plan 
 those changes in its condition meant the reorganization plan previously presented to creditors would have to be revamped 
 since then eastern has been negotiating with creditors over revisions but the creditors committee has been having problems with the revisions 
 the committee has two groups of experts it calls on to analyze eastern 's plans 
 both said the new plan would n't work 
 ernst & young said eastern 's plans will miss its projections of earnings before interest tax and depreciation by $ million and that eastern 's plan presented no comfort level according to a source present at yesterday 's session 
 experts from goldman sachs estimated eastern would miss the same mark by $ million to $ million the source said 
 the experts said they expected eastern would have to issue new debt to cover its costs and that it would generate far less cash than anticipated 
 other costs also would increase including maintenance because eastern has an older fleet 
 at the news conference mr. lorenzo and eastern president phil  presented a far  assessment 
 by flight attendants pilots and gate agents dressed in  new blue  they said eastern has exceeded its operational goals and is filling its seats 
 starting next month eastern will begin flying flights daily instead of the previously announced they said 
 mr.  declined to give out eastern 's daily losses but said he did n't expect eastern would have to dip into the cash from asset sales currently held in escrow 
 these accounts hold several hundred million dollars primarily from asset sales 
 the plan eastern hopes to pursue he said calls for eastern to have $ million in cash by year 's end 
 both he and mr. lorenzo predicted that plan might be confirmed in january 
 as to negotiations with creditors mr. lorenzo said in remarks after the conference we 'll have to see how they talks come along 
 however he added it 's not a requirement that the plan be accepted by creditors 
 it must be accepted by the court 
 under bankruptcy law eastern has exclusive rights for a certain period to develop its own reorganization plan 
 that deadline has been extended once and could be extended again 
 if eastern can get creditor support court confirmation of its plan could be relatively swift 
 but creditors are free to press for court approval of their own plan or the court could ignore both sides and draw its own 
 in any event some people familiar with the case question whether the court will act by january as forecast by mr. lorenzo and mr.  
 eastern sought bankruptcy-law protection a few days after a  strike began march 
 mr. lorenzo told reporters the reorganization eastern is pursuing would create a carrier N to N of the size of the  eastern 
 he projected it would be operating about flights a day by late spring only slightly fewer than the carrier 's old volume of a day 
 hopes of  the corporate minimum tax before are weakening 
 the method of  the N tax paid if it exceeds tax figured the regular way is due for a change in thanks to 's tax act 
 but most experts agree that the concept that is to be introduced  in great  they have been trying to head it off this year 
 ways and means chairman  backed a  plan in the pending house tax bill but the plan turns out to be a big revenue loser 
 now the senate 's  bill  any proposal to deal with the corporate tax 
 proponents of  fear that the chances of getting it into the final bill are  
 we hear it has low priority on the house side says samuel  of coopers &   
 if the law is n't changed he says we are left  at rules that are almost impossible to implement because there are so many complex depreciation calculations to do 
 but congress still could resolve the issue with other legislation this year or next  adds 
 hugo 's  may be offset by immediate claims for tax refunds 
 this law aids   named by the president as disaster areas as well as regions so designated after other disasters 
 it lets victims  to  casualty losses on either or amended returns whichever offers the larger tax benefit they have until april to choose 
 a return to claim a refund brings cash faster but for personal losses there are other factors to consider notes publisher prentice hall 
 a loss after insurance  is deductible only to the extent that it exceeds $ and that the year 's total losses exceed N of adjusted gross income victims may pick the year when income is lower and deductions higher 
 in filing an original not amended return a couple should consider whether damaged property is owned jointly or separately and whether one spouse has larger income that may determine whether they should file jointly or separately 
 the irs delays several deadlines for hugo 's victims 
 returns for from people with six-month filing  were due monday but the irs says people in the disaster areas wo n't be  for late filing if their returns are marked hugo and  by jan. 
 interest will be imposed on unpaid taxes but  penalties on the returns will be  if the balance due and paid is N or less of the liability 
 irs notice describes this and other deadline relief for hugo 's victims 
 among the provisions  taxpayers with returns due last monday wo n't be  if they file or request an extension and pay tax due by nov. 
 returns due by oct. or nov. may be delayed to jan. 
 ca n't be granted for filing  returns due oct. or for  withheld taxes but late penalties will be  for deposits made by nov. 
 the notice also grants relief for certain  returns 
 one-day  in a chartered boat were  for permanent staffers of american business service corp. a costa mesa calif. supplier of temporary workers 
 the irs denied cost deductions because few of the  got to go aboard 
 but the tax court said the limitations were reasonable and realistic and allowed the deductions 
 buyers who try to avoid sales tax by  prices paid in private deals are the targets of a new york drive 
 estimating that the state may lose $ million a year officials announced the filing of criminal actions and hundreds of civil penalties 
 when an ira owner dies the trustee of the individual retirement account must file forms reporting market values relating to the  and each  with copies to the  and beneficiaries 
 irs revenue procedure describes the reporting requirements 
 bigger than a  was this cash  's reputation for honesty 
 people often cite  and  of banks to justify cash  to the irs 
 gregory  brown of  calif. a   young  told that story to the tax court 
 but judges usually find the real aim is to escape tax on hidden income and the irs said brown must have had such income although it uncovered no source because he  $ in a bank account in while reporting income of only $ 
 brown 's story 
 the deposits came from savings kept in a   he saved $ in by living with family members and  pennies and $ of secret gifts from his  father who had abandoned the family in 
 brown had no proof but testimony of his mother and  about his father and of an  about his honesty and habits satisfied a judge that brown was  and his tale of gifts was possible 
 the irs offered no evidence of hidden sources of taxable income so judge  rejected its claims 
 briefs 
 asked how he made charitable gifts of $ out of reported two-year income of $ thomas h.  of  texas told the tax court he had  his income 
 the court rejected his incredible claims denied his deductions and imposed a negligence penalty 
 rep.  r. colo. entered a bill to exempt from tax rewards for tips leading to the arrest of violent criminals 
 peterson  her bicycle and  up yet another steep rocky path seemingly suitable only for mountain  
 after a  climb she is  by a  vista a  of golden  under an   sky 
 this place is miles into the back country a   for a  but reached by ms. peterson and six others in a mere two hours of   mountain bikes 
 this says ms. peterson is what it 's all about 
 twelve hundred miles away  at a  county calif. state park are among the many who do n't quite share the enthusiasm 
 this summer speeding bikers were blamed for an accident in the  county park in which a horse spooked on a trail that was closed to bikers broke its leg 
 the animal had to be destroyed the bikers fled and were never found 
 in numerous parks near san francisco  have been forced to close trails set up speed  and use radar guns to curb fast and reckless riding 
 they have even sent  in pursuit of bikers after  and  complained they were being driven from trails 
 we were being  says steve  trails coordinator of the east bay regional park district 
 two years ago the district decided to limit the bikes to fire roads in its  acres 
 from about six years ago the number of mountain bikes in the u.s. is expected to grow to million in 
 at least half that growth will have come in the past three years alone 
 the controversy kicked up by the proliferation of these   is one of the most divisive  to blow through the national conservation movement in recent memory 
 bikers many of them  environmentalists  their sport an efficient safe  way to get back to nature while  a right as taxpayers to  on public  
 but the bikes '  numbers safety concerns and fear that they damage fragile  have prompted  from the  to the eastern  to ban them from the back country 
 key to the issue is that the bikes in  hands can go virtually anywhere and in reckless hands can become vehicles of  
 an   can leap from a dead stop to the top of a  table without losing balance 
 such skills allow riders to fly down  mountain grades at speeds of up to miles an hour a  for the  but a nightmare for   or  
 for   managers across the nation the response is increasingly to shut the gates 
 the state of california following the lead of some regional parks recently adopted regulations that closed nearly all   in state parks to mountain  
 the move largely  them to roads used by  vehicles 
 most other states have enacted similar bans 
 the bikes are unwelcome on trails in national parks 
 even the u.s. forest service whose   philosophy permits  vehicles on thousands of miles of its trails across the u.s. has begun to close some  to the bikes including major portions of the popular pacific crest trail which  from california to canada 
 often these closings come after vigorous  lobbying by conservation organizations the politically potent sierra club among them 
 sierra has been instrumental in  a number of the california bans 
 it has been  an  campaign to beat back a proposal pushed by utah bike groups to allow the cycles in federally designated  areas where they are now prohibited 
 yet sierra 's hard-line stance has created something of a  in the organization which estimates that N of its members own mountain bikes 
 pressure from these members prompted the club recently to soften its  rhetoric it no longer for example  the bikes into the same category as  and other   vehicles 
 but the club still insists that public  ought to be closed to the bikes unless studies indicate the bikes wo n't  the environment or other users 
 i have a mountain bike yet as a  i 've been run off the road by kids  down a fire trail on them says gene  an official at sierra 's headquarters in san francisco  the concerns of many members 
 people who feel that  should be banned from an area are n't looking at the whole picture complains mark  associate editor of mountain and city  magazine in  park calif 
 mr.  is among the  of bikers who got their first taste of  as  or  
 he says fellow bikers show the same concern for the land that they demonstrated as  many are  that the conservation community would suddenly consider them the enemy 
 to fight back activists such as mr.  are forming groups to lobby land managers over access issues and  education programs to show that the bikes can  share trails 
 mr.  's group concerned   association mounted petition drives to help keep open certain santa  mountain trails designated for closing 
 groups in  idaho michigan and massachusetts have won similar concessions says tim  mountain bike editor of  magazine 
 these groups have been trying to improve the mountain  's image in the san  park district where a  was clobbered by a  this summer bikers have formed a volunteer  to help  enforce regulations and to school riders in proper trail  
 even   sierra members concede that N of all riders cause most of the problems 
 while some are  riders who simply  regulations much bad riding simply reflects ignorance that can be corrected through education and  pressure says jim  a director of the international mountain  association 
 i think we 're making progress 
 few would have  such a furor when a decade ago some  county bicycle enthusiasts created a hybrid bike using fat tires   and  technology 
 they wanted a machine that would allow them to  into   then  to cycles 
 they got a machine more responsive more stable and in many ways easier to ride than the  racing bikes that then were the rage 
 when the bikes first entered mass production in they were dismissed as a fad 
 last year N of the million  sold in the u.s. were mountain bikes 
 in california a bellwether market they accounted for more than N of all bike sales 
 the majority of the bikes never even make it into the high country 
 city  love them because they shift smoothly in traffic bounce easily over curbs and roll through road glass with far fewer flat tires than racing bikes 
   population is a  of the sport 
 by one estimate everyone here under owns at least one bike 
 the town is home to the mountain bike hall of fame and it hosts the annual fat tire bike week 
 this summer the  attracted more visitors than the busiest week of the town 's winter ski season 
 david  chairman of the fat tire bike celebration  that the bike 's popularity may be a combination of technology and  
 the mountain bike feels as comfortable as the  bike you had as a kid but it can do so much more he says 
 the following issues were recently filed with the securities and exchange commission 
 canada 's province of   shelf offering of up to $ million of debentures 
 gas holding co. a subsidiary of  shipping corp. offering of $ million first preferred ship mortgage notes via merrill lynch capital markets 
 h.f. ahmanson & co. offering of four million shares of  convertible preferred stock series b. via goldman sachs & co first boston corp. and merrill lynch 
 shared technologies inc. offering of million common shares via  van horn &  inc. and oakes  & co 
 stock-market tremors again shook bond prices while the dollar turned in a mixed performance 
 early yesterday investors scrambled to buy treasury bonds for safety as stock prices plummeted and fears mounted of a  of friday 
 but stocks later recovered  most of their early declines 
 that cut short the rally in treasury bonds and depressed prices moderately below late monday 's levels 
 the dow jones industrial average down more than points early in the day finished points lower at 
 long-term treasury issues declined about half a point or $ for each $ face amount 
 the stock market clearly is leading the bond markets said jack  an executive vice president at nikko securities 
 people are breathing a major sigh of relief that the world did n't end monday morning or yesterday 
 gold a closely watched barometer of investor anxiety was little changed 
 the dollar initially fell against other major currencies on news that the u.s. trade deficit surged in august to $ billion 
 but the dollar later rebounded finishing slightly higher against the yen although slightly lower against the mark 
 federal reserve officials sent another signal of their determination to shore up investor confidence 
 in an apparent attempt to keep a lid on short-term interest rates the fed once again pumped money into the banking system 
 but the fed move was a small  traders said 
 fed officials appear reluctant to ease their credit grip any further because a bold move does n't appear necessary several investment managers said 
 the fed has allowed a key short-term interest rate to decline about  percentage point 
 the federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks has been  around N down from N previously 
 although stocks have led bonds this week some traders predict that relationship will reverse during the next few weeks 
 nikko 's mr.  fears a huge wave of treasury borrowing early next month will drive down treasury bond prices 
 that coupled with poor third-quarter  comparisons will make trouble for the equity market for the next two to three months he says 
 but several other traders contend investors have  to junk-bond jitters and that stock prices will continue to recover 
 they shot the whole  just because the piano player hit a bad note said   president of  associates inc. referring to the stock market 's plunge friday on news of trouble in financing the ual corp buy-out 
 in major market activity treasury bond prices fell 
 the yield on 30-year treasury bonds climbed back above N ending the day at N 
 the dollar was mixed 
 late yesterday in new york the dollar rose to yen from yen monday but fell to marks from marks 
 the consumer news and business channel cable network and u.s. news & world report have formed a joint venture to produce cable program versions of special issues of the magazine 
 the programs will run on the cable network the sunday evening immediately prior to the release of the special issue of u.s. news & world report 
 cnbc is a joint venture of the national broadcasting co. a unit of general electric co. and  system corp 
 advertisers will be offered an advertising package which for a single price will include time on the cnbc program and ad pages in the special  
 cnbc will produce six one-hour programs beginning in april 
 the first program scheduled in the joint venture is the  's guide 
 other programs and special issues will be based on themes of health jobs personal finance the best colleges and investments 
 the programs will be written and produced by cnbc with background and research provided by staff from u.s. news & world report 
   
 i 've learned the hard way that too much  takes  the next day about nine no wonder i say i drink to your health it certainly is n't to mine 
 george o.  
 out 
 those supermarket  make me feel slow because i still have n't seen 
 bruce  
 daffynition 
 repression  control 
 brown 
 weyerhaeuser co. reported a one-time gain and strong  sales that offset weakness in pulp and paper to fuel a N jump in third-quarter net income to $ million or cents a share 
 in the third quarter the forest-products company reported profit of $ million or cents a share 
 sales rose N to $ billion from $ billion 
 for the nine months the company posted a N rise in profit to $ million or $ a share from $ million or $ a share 
 sales rose N to $ billion from $ billion 
 results for the third quarter and nine months include a pretax loss of $ million from the company 's business improvement and  program and a gain of $ million on the sale of a subsidiary 's common stock 
 forest-products operations strengthened in the third quarter while paper operations were dogged by higher costs soft newsprint exports and a strong japanese yen 
 some competing forest-products firms have recently reported improved results due to strong pulp and paper business 
 weyerhaeuser 's pulp and paper operations were up for the nine months but full-year performance depends on the balance of operating and maintenance costs plus pricing of certain products the company said 
 looking ahead to the fourth quarter the company said export  and lumber markets will be weak while panel and  markets will be stronger 
 pulp and paper performance depends on cost and price  the company said 
 bankers trust new york corp. became the latest major u.s. bank to increase reserves for its loans to less-developed countries making a $ billion third-quarter addition to its provision 
 the bank also said it expects to report a $ billion loss for the third quarter and a loss for the full year 
 the new reserves bring the company 's provision for loans to third world countries to $ billion or N of bankers trust 's medium and long-term loans to these countries 
 step up to the plate and take the big swing 
 get the problem behind you and do n't look back said james j.  analyst at   & woods in  of the move 
 bankers trust has had the capacity to do this for some time the analyst said 
 he expects citicorp to take a similar step this year 
 citicorp yesterday reported a N third-quarter earnings drop which analysts called a bit disappointing while manufacturers hanover corp. posted a $ million loss for the quarter after adding $ million to its reserve for loans to less-developed countries 
 three other major u.s. banks posted earnings increases 
 wells fargo & co. of san francisco posted a N jump 
 financial corp. the parent of pittsburgh national bank reported net income climbed N while net for banc one corp. of columbus ohio grew N 
 citicorp 
 analysts were only slightly disappointed by citicorp 's numbers 
 there 's nothing in here that 's horrible and nothing to make you think they 're setting the world on fire said   analyst for  lawrence morgan grenfell inc 
 earnings from the bank 's global consumer business grew N 
 the consumer business continues to drive the earnings stream said mr.  of   & woods 
 corporate finance and trading results in member countries of the organization for economic cooperation and development were relatively flat sometimes  the bank said and profit for the area sank N 
 the cross-border loan portfolio reflected adjustment problems and  payment patterns the bank said no interest payments from argentina in the nine months and none from brazil in the third quarter while venezuela brought itself substantially current 
 overall the portfolio narrowed its quarterly loss to $ million from $ million a year earlier 
 people were waiting to see if we would take an additional provision for  and long-term loans to less-developed countries a citicorp spokesman said 
 but he reiterated the bank 's position that it is comfortable with the current level of $ billion covering about N of the $ billion of such loans outstanding 
 ronald i.  analyst at sanford c. bernstein & co. called citicorp 's venture-capital gains of $ million before taxes strong 
 a concerning item the analyst cited was the N jump in expenses which the bank attributes to costs of expanding both its consumer credit-card operations and its overseas branch business 
 citicorp 's spokesman said however that the bank is maintaining those expenses in proportion to revenue growth 
 wells fargo 
 wells fargo continued to generate one of the highest profit margins among major banks  a drop in net interest margin with N third-quarter growth in  business loans and similar growth in mortgages 
 its margin fell only seven basis points or  of a percentage point from a year ago compared with a  drop at security pacific corp. and much larger declines among banks in other parts of the country 
 as a result wells fargo 's net interest income rose $ million or N to $ million for the quarter 
 non-interest income fell slightly to $ million from $ million while wells fargo continued to  control non-interest expense which was almost flat at $ million 
 the combination of solid loan growth with tight expense control gave wells fargo a N return on average assets for the quarter about N higher than security pacific 's and a profit ratio matched by only two or three other major banks in the u.s. 
 wells fargo 's return on equity increased to N from N 
 wells fargo has sold all of its  loans made to less-developed countries and managed to partly reverse the sharp rise in domestic  loans which fell N from the previous quarter to $ million from $ million 
 but the amount was still N higher than the year-ago level and N higher as a percentage of total loans 
 that trend and wells fargo 's heavy exposure to leveraged buy-outs are about the only worries analysts have about wells fargo 's financial picture 
 wells fargo is rebuilding its loan-loss reserve which increased to $ million at sept. from $ million the previous quarter but was down from $ million a year ago when the bank still had some shaky foreign loans 
 manufacturers hanover 
 manufacturers hanover said that excluding the addition to its reserves certain tax benefits and a one-time $ million gain on the sale of an interest in a foreign leasing company third-quarter earnings were $ million 
 the comparable year-earlier number was $ million a spokesman said 
 the bank 's additional provisions brought reserves for loans to less-developed countries to $ billion covering N of its medium and long-term loans outstanding to these nations 
 the net interest margin the difference between the bank 's cost of funds and what it receives as interest payments improved in the quarter as did certain areas of wholesale banking 
 fees from  loans dropped N to $ million 
 we did n't take part in a lot of deals in the quarter because their credit quality was poor the spokesman said 
 expenses unrelated to interest rose N to $ million 
 financial 
 financial cited higher income from sources unrelated to interest and said it continues to cut costs 
 net interest income in the third quarter edged up N to $ million 
 trust income grew N to $ million while service charges fees and commissions increased N to $ million 
 the bank 's total allowance for credit losses was $ million or N of total loans 
 prime minister  gandhi set a date next month for general elections that some analysts say could cost him and his ruling congress i party control of the government 
 other analysts say the indian leader could retain control with a slim majority or be forced to rule as the dominant partner in a coalition with other parties 
 elections in this large diverse and  nation are always hard to predict 
 much depends on the opposition a loose group of regional and ideological parties led by former gandhi cabinet minister    
 the biggest  is that the elections will be a vote for or against mr. gandhi and his five years in power five years of ups and  promises and disappointments and wide fluctuations in popularity 
 yesterday four days after an unusual parliamentary defeat for the ruling party mr. gandhi called elections for the lower house of parliament on nov. and 
 the elections will be held in different states on one of the two days 
 the lower house 's five-year term expires in january the parliament 's upper house is appointed 
 the elections will be a  test for the 45-year-old prime minister and congress i which in various forms has ruled for of india 's years of independence 
 after a  win in in polls held after the assassination of his mother  gandhi mr. gandhi saw his popularity begin a roller  ride 
 his early promises to make india a modern nation remain  down in bloated bureaucracy 
 his pledge to clean up local administration and indian politics including his own party went  
 his mr. clean image was  by an  scandal which will be a major campaign issue 
 some analysts predict that disappointment in mr. gandhi 's spent pledge to reduce corruption and  local government will crest at the polls 
 there 's a wide feeling of  across the country says  sen  of the center for policy research in new  
 i think the people will be judging the regime by a   by a corrupt revenue  
 this could be a big protest against an administrative failure 
 even if the congress i retains control of the government mr. gandhi 's ability to push through major initiatives might be  by a  majority 
 economic analysts call his   of the indian economy incomplete and many are hoping for major new  if he is returned firmly to power 
 the   or lower house of parliament has elected and two appointed seats 
 in the congress i captured seats the largest victory in the history of indian democracy 
 the  was fueled by panic that prevailed in india at the time 
 mrs. gandhi had been  by   and many indians feared their country might split apart 
 in the previous three general elections similar national issues  the vote 
 in the congress party won after india 's victory in the  war 
 in mrs. gandhi was thrown out of office after her  emergency rule and in after her  made a mess of their three years in power she was restored to office 
 most political analysts say that if mr. gandhi 's opposition  to field single candidates in most  the congress i will lose big 
 but if the opposition remains  the congress i could win a small majority or lead a coalition government 
 mehta a  and former gandhi ally predicts congress i will win only seats a quarter of the house if the opposition fields single candidates in N of the races 
 analysts say the opposition will struggle this week to  and its success will be clear only when it  its final list of parliamentary candidates 
 the  scandal is likely to be one of the big talking points in the campaign but it 's unclear how it is viewed by average indian voters 
 in india signed a $ billion contract with ab bofors a unit of nobel industries sweden ab to purchase  pieces 
 the contract was negotiated by the countries ' two prime ministers and was supposed to be free of commissions or agents ' costs 
 in april evidence surfaced that commissions were paid 
 the opposition charged that the money was used to bribe indian government officials an  denied by mr. gandhi 's administration 
 but many of his statements on the issue in parliament subsequently were proven wrong by  evidence 
 the scandal has faded and  but recent disclosures propelled it back onto the front pages and that has helped  the opposition which last week blocked passage of two constitutional amendment bills 
 it was the first time in years that such government bills were defeated 
 in a country where a bribe is needed to get a phone a job and even into a school the name bofors has become a potent  cry against the government 
 that illustrates the kind of disappointment many indians feel toward mr. gandhi whom they  elected and  supported in his first two years in power 
 his term has produced no spectacular failures in politics in the economy or on the military front and has  up some successes 
 but the average indian had tremendous hope in the  leader and his promise to make both government and the ruling party more effective and less corrupt 
 his failures in those two areas deeply and sometimes bitterly disappointed many indians 
 we do n't like the congress i says   a farmer in the western state of  
 the congress government is taking the farmers ' bread and not giving us any support 
 when there are well problems light problems road problems the government tells us to forget it 
 the greatest thing going for mr. gandhi and the congress i party is the poor reputation of the opposition 
 even if it  for the elections its  is likely to be temporary 
 when the congress i lost the election following mrs. gandhi 's  emergency rule a similar coalition took power and then  
 many indians fear a repeat of that experience 
 march N 
 ab bofors a unit of nobel industries sweden ab enters into a $ billion contract with india 's defense ministry to supply bofors   field  guns 
 in prime minister  gandhi in his talks with then swedish prime minister   imposed the condition that the contract have no middlemen 
 april N 
 swedish national radio reports that about $ million nearly N of the total contract was paid by bofors as commissions to middlemen 
 june N 
 sweden 's national audit bureau releases its report confirming payment of about $ million to unidentified indians 
 the report says that investigations were severely hampered by lack of cooperation from bofors 
 bofors says it ca n't disclose the names of the middlemen because it would jeopardize industrial  
 a portion of the report containing names of the middlemen is withheld by officials citing bank  requirements 
 aug. N 
 prime minister gandhi tells the indian parliament neither i nor any member of my family has received any consideration in these transactions 
 that is the truth 
 aug. N 
 bofors admits payments of $ million to middlemen 
 april N 
 the  newspaper publishes  of bank documents for foreign-exchange  and letters between bofors and certain private companies related to the sale of the guns to india 
 april N 
 a parliamentary  committee dominated by the congress i party concludes that there were no middlemen in the deal and no payment to any indian individual or company 
 july N 
 the comptroller and  of india reports serious  in the government 's technical and financial evaluation of the bofors deal 
 sept. N 
 retired army chief of staff    in an interview that he suggested in may that the government cancel the bofors contract 
 according to gen.  that would have forced bofors to disclose the names of the middlemen who received  from the company 
 his recommendation was rejected by the government 
 oct. N 
 the  newspaper publishes the withheld portion of the swedish national audit bureau 's report 
 the disclosures state that commissions were paid by bofors to an indian agent of the arms company 
 parsow partnership ltd. and  partners l.p. said they may seek proposals from third parties relating to a sale or restructuring of caci international inc 
 in a filing with the securities and exchange commission parsow and  which together hold N of caci 's common shares said they think it is in the best interest of caci stockholders that the company be sold 
 caci based in  va. said it had n't seen the filing by parsow and  and therefore had no comment 
 the partnerships said they may seek board representation and they may seek the support of caci 's board and other major shareholders in connection with their plans 
 according to the filing parsow and  are based in  neb. and are controlled by the same general partner alan s. parsow 
 their combined stake consists of caci common shares including shares bought in the past days at $ to $ a share 
 additional shares may be bought or sold in the open market in private transactions or otherwise depending on market conditions and other factors 
 the  trading relationship between bonds and stocks was interrupted yesterday as bonds fell despite a modest decline in stock prices 
 but bond investors continue to keep a close watch on the jittery stock market 
 in early trading investors were bidding bond prices higher as stocks tumbled and fears mounted that friday 's stock market debacle would be repeated 
 but a partial recovery in the dow jones industrial average which had been down more than points in midmorning dashed those expectations 
 treasury bonds also were hurt late in the day by a $ billion offering by the tennessee valley authority and the prospect of a huge amount of new agency debt 
 bond investors were hoping that stock prices would continue to fall said roger early a vice president at federated investors inc. pittsburgh 
 when stocks stabilized that was a disappointment 
 meanwhile for the second straight day the bond market paid little attention to the federal reserve 's open market operations 
 fed officials  more cash into the banking system by arranging $ billion of repurchase agreements during the usual  intervention period 
 the move was meant to keep a lid on interest rates and to boost investor confidence 
 the intervention has been friendly meaning that they really did n't have to do it said maria  ramirez money-market economist at drexel burnham lambert inc 
 she said a more aggressive move was n't needed 
 the fed also appears reluctant to ease credit conditions further 
 it already has allowed the closely watched federal funds rate to decline percentage point to about N from its previous target level of about N 
 the rate which banks charge each other on overnight loans is considered an early signal of changes in fed policy 
 it ended at about N yesterday but was as low as N monday 
 the treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond fell more than point or over $ for each $ face amount while the yield moved above N for the first time since thursday 
 investment-grade corporate municipal and mortgage-backed securities also fell 
 but most junk bonds closed unchanged after opening slightly higher on bargain-hunting by institutional investors 
 some so-called high-quality junk issues such as r.h. macy & co. 's N subordinated debentures rose 
 the macy 's issue closed up about one point at a bid price of 
 the tva 's public debt offering was its first in years 
 strong investor demand prompted it to boost the size of the issue from $ billion 
 traders said hedging related to the tva pricing also pressured treasury bonds 
 underwriters of the tva bonds reduced their market risk by selling treasurys to cover at least part of their tva holdings said james r.  a senior vice president at shearson lehman government securities inc 
 the tva bonds also served to  the market that there will be even more new supply said lawrence n.  a managing director at  warburg securities & co 
 today the treasury will announce the size of its next two-year note sale and resolution funding corp. will announce details of its first bond offering 
 some traders estimate $ billion of new two-year treasurys will be sold next week and they expect refcorp to offer $ billion to $ billion of long-term bailout bonds 
 refcorp was created to help fund the thrift bailout 
 another agency issue came to market yesterday 
 the office of finance of the federal home loan banks said it priced a  $ billion bond offering for the banks to yield from N to N 
 the release of several economic reports had little impact on the market including a report that the u.s. trade deficit expanded to a surprisingly wide $ billion in august up from a revised $ billion in july 
 the august gap was expected to have expanded to $ billion 
 treasury securities 
 treasury securities were essentially flat to about point lower 
 the benchmark 30-year bond was quoted late at N to yield N compared with N to yield N monday 
 the latest 10-year notes were quoted late at N to yield N compared with N to yield N 
 short-term rates increased 
 the discount rate on three-month bills rose to N for a bond-equivalent yield of N 
 the rate on six-month bills rose to N for a bond-equivalent yield of N 
 corporate other issues 
 investment-grade corporate bonds ended to point lower while most junk bonds ended unchanged 
 the tva 's huge $ billion offering dominated attention in the new-issue market 
 tva offered $ billion of 30-year bonds priced to yield N $ billion in 10-year notes priced to yield N and $ billion in five-year notes priced to yield N 
 the tva which operates one of the nation 's largest electric power systems is a corporation wholly owned by the u.s. government 
 yesterday 's bond sale was part of a $ billion refinancing plan to pay off high-interest debt the tva owes the federal financing bank an arm of the treasury 
 meanwhile lockheed corp. priced a $ million note offering to yield N 
 mortgage-backed securities 
 the derivative mortgage-backed market revived after a brief  as two new remics totaling $ million were offered and talk circulated about two more issues that could be priced today 
 the revival of the real estate mortgage investment  market reflected the relative calm in the mortgage market after two days of volatile trading 
 dealers noted that it 's difficult to structure new remics when prices are moving widely 
 the two remics priced were a $ million federal home loan mortgage corp. issue underwritten by salomon brothers inc. and a $ million federal national mortgage association deal underwritten by greenwich capital markets 
 the remic issuance supported prices of freddie mac and fannie mae securities which held up better than government national mortgage association securities during an afternoon sell-off 
 ginnie mae N securities for november delivery ended at N down N N securities at N down and N securities at N down 
 freddie mac N securities were at N down 
 the ginnie mae N issue was yielding N to a 12-year average life assumption as the spread above the treasury 10-year note held at percentage points 
 municipals 
 confusion over the near-term trend for rates dominated the municipal arena as gyrations in the stock market continued to buffet bonds 
 long tax-exempt dollar bonds were mostly flat to point lower after a  session of moving  to stocks in modest  trading 
 prices of  municipal bonds were capped by news that chemical securities inc. as agent for a customer will accept bids today for two large lists of bonds that include many such issues 
 the lists total $ million 
 bonds are called at their earliest call date with the  proceeds of another bond issue 
 meanwhile several new issues were priced 
 underwriters led by painewebber inc. set preliminary pricing for $ million of california health facilities financing authority revenue bonds for kaiser  
 tentative  yields were set from N in to N in 
 as part of its college savings plan connecticut offered $ million of general obligation capital appreciation bonds priced to yield to maturity from N in to N in N and 
 a chemical securities group won a $ million oregon general obligation veterans ' tax note issue due nov. N 
 the N notes yield N 
 foreign bonds 
 west german government bond prices took a wild roller-coaster ride pulled down by monday 's u.s. stock market gains then up by a  u.s. trade deficit and falling u.s. stock prices 
 west germany 's N bond due october was at late yesterday off point from monday to yield N 
 the N notes due april were up point to to yield N 
 british government bonds surged on renewed volatility in the stock market 
 the treasury N bond due rose to N to yield N 
 but japanese bonds ended weaker 
 the benchmark no. N bond due ended on brokers ' screens at a price of off point to yield N 
 a house-senate conference approved an estimated $ billion fiscal spending bill that provides a N increase for space research and development and  far-reaching provisions affecting the federal mortgage market 
 the current ceiling on home loans insured by the federal housing administration would be increased to $ 
 separately the bill gives authority to the bush administration to facilitate the refinancing of federally subsidized loans for low-income and  homeowners 
 the second provision affecting so-called mortgages has met strong opposition from investment bankers represented by the public securities association 
 and a  of influential former senate aides employed by the wall street firm salomon brothers came to the capitol in a  attempt to strip the provision 
 by an margin senate negotiators voted to preserve the mortgage refinancing plan and despite powerful allies the opposition found itself undercut by an unusual alliance of liberals and conservatives 
 the government currently is subsidizing an estimated loans above N under the program and however  to private investors the refinancing is expected to yield at least $ million in savings in fiscal 
 this sum has been   by  anxious to offset spending elsewhere and conservative sen. phil  cast the fight as a  stand against  interests 
 we are  here not of the mortgage companies but the taxpayers said the texas republican 
 the action came as the administration won final congressional approval of $ million in assistance for elections scheduled in nicaragua in february 
 the bulk of the money would be  through the national  for democracy but the legislation is so  written that it has been dogged by questions regarding the money 's true purpose and its ultimate  
 the senate had refused late friday to   and limit debate but behind the bipartisan leadership a solid majority took shape yesterday and brushed aside amendments seeking to cut the total package or steer it away from direct aid to political parties 
 final approval on a roll call was never in doubt but the opposition drew an unusual mix of senators including republicans   and warren  and democrats bill bradley and john glenn 
 the money will be applied for voter registration and election monitoring but more than half is likely to go to the union   party 
 critics warned such cash contributions may only undercut the opposition party 's standing and one irony is that under nicaraguan law a major portion of the opposition party 's funds must be shared with the government 's supreme electoral council 
 within the appropriations conference yesterday the $ billion measure is the second largest of the annual domestic spending bills and covers a  collection of accounts for science housing veterans and the environment 
 the decision to raise the ceiling on fha home loans still faces strong opposition in the house 
 but it is driven by the same fiscal pressures that have forced lawmakers to resort to various  devices to  as much as $ billion in spending that would otherwise put the bill over budget 
 these costs will complicate the budget picture in fiscal and the measure further  congress to a set of costly projects including the first construction funds for the space station 
 the station is promised $ billion within the $ billion provided for research and development in the national aeronautics and space administration and the nation 's  aerospace plane cut by the senate could receive as much as $ million in new funds or transfers 
 similarly the house agreed to add back $ million to continue work on the advanced communications technology satellite being developed by general electric co 
 and while setting a statutory limit of $ billion on the automated space probe the conference appropriated $ million for the start-up of the  mission a successor to the  space probe 
 among major domestic agencies the environmental protection agency stands to receive increases significantly beyond those sought by the administration with pollution  and control accounts growing by N to about $ million 
 an estimated $ billion is separately allocated for the national science foundation and within the housing and urban development department more than $ billion is provided for federally  housing including an expanded effort to modernize public housing units that serve the poorest families 
 to an unusual degree the massive bill has become a vehicle for lawmakers to  funds for projects in home states 
 while the practice was discouraged in the past the conference agreement is  with veterans ' hospitals environmental projects and urban grants designated for specific communities 
 the most striking example yesterday may have been in community development funds where the two houses had separately approved a total of projects valued at $ million and the conference added more valued at $ million to  preserve balance between the house and senate 
 yesterday 's conference agreement is the second major bill to emerge from negotiations this week as  approved a fiscal transportation bill late monday that includes a sweeping ban on smoking on most domestic airline flights 
 an exemption will remain for flights longer than six hours to hawaii and alaska but estimates by the tobacco industry yesterday indicate all but about flights would be covered 
 separately a third conference report covering an $ billion treasury and postal service bill was sent to the senate after passing the house on a roll call yesterday 
 and after weeks of delay the appropriations process is beginning to take some final shape 
 defense and foreign aid are the two most critical areas remaining from the administration 's standpoint 
 and among domestic programs the most serious threat is white house opposition to abortion riders attached to separate bills funding the district of columbia and department of health and human services 
 the same issue threatens to spill over to the foreign aid debate and mr. bush also is threatening to veto any agreement that   provisions renewing u.s. support for the united nations fund for population activities 
 in a sharply written letter rep. david  chairman of the house appropriations subcommittee for foreign operations warned mr. bush that the result of his  could weaken efforts to accommodate the administration elsewhere 
 as a result of your  writes the wisconsin democrat i guess there is no longer any point in taking administration views into account on other items in conference  regardless of their resolution you apparently intend to veto this bill 
 markets usually get noticed because they soar or plunge 
 gold which has n't risen or fallen significantly in quite some time yesterday achieved what may be a new level of  the most actively traded futures contracts closed unchanged despite nervous fluctuations in both the dollar and the stock market 
 the settlement prices of the december february and april gold contracts were even with monday 's final prices 
 the december contract which has the greatest trading volume ended at $ an ounce 
 the other months posted advances of cents to cents an ounce 
 according to one analyst bernard savaiko of painewebber new york the stock market 's ability on monday to rally from last friday 's decline which seemed to indicate that the economy was n't going to fall either took the  out of precious metals prices and out of gold 's in particular 
 yesterday gold traded within a narrow range 
 gold tried to rally on monday but ran into the same situation that has subdued gold prices for more than a year selling by gold producers who want to fix the highest possible price for their gold 
 december delivery gold is trading in a range of $ to $ an ounce and is having difficulty breaking out above that mr. savaiko said 
 producers at the moment regard that area a good one in which to sell gold 
 also mr. savaiko noted stock market investors seeking greater safety are  toward buying bonds rather than precious metals because we are  more toward a  economy that does n't make gold and precious metals attractive 
 jeffrey  president of  canada toronto precious metals advisers said there is little to  gold traders to buy the metal 
 investors in the u.s. and europe are comfortable with the actions of the federal reserve in its willingness to supply liquidity to financial system which helped the stock market rebound on monday he said 
 there is n't any rush on the part of investors in the west to buy gold he said 
 they still bear the memory of october when they bought gold after the stock market  and ended up losing money because gold prices subsequently fell mr.  said 
 it 's an experience they do n't want to repeat 
 at the moment gold traders are n't concerned about inflation he said and as for the dollar gold 's association with the currency has been  recently so drops in the currency are n't having much impact on gold 
 mehta chief bullion trader for chase manhattan bank said there is little incentive on the part of traders to sell gold because the stock market may go lower and gold may retain some of its flight to safety quality 
 there is little incentive to buy gold because if the stock market goes higher it may be just a false alarm 
 this is keeping the gold traders  
 the most remarkable feature about yesterday 's action was that the price of roughly $ an ounce was regarded as attractive enough by gold producers around the world to aggressively sell gold mr. mehta said 
 i do n't know what it means over the long run but for the short term it appears that gold producers are  for the $ or so that gold has risen over the past week or so he said 
 previously he noted gold producers  to back off from a rising gold market letting prices rise as much as possible before selling 
 mr. mehta observed that the u.s. merchandise trade deficit which rose sharply in august according to yesterday 's report has been having less and less impact on the gold market 
 the dollar has n't reacted much to it so gold has n't either he said 
 in other commodity markets yesterday 
 energy 
 crude oil prices rose slightly in lackluster activity as traders in the pits tried to assess action in the stock market 
 since stock market indexes plummeted last friday participants in all markets have been wary 
 when traders become confident that the stock market has stabilized oil prices are expected to rise as supply and demand fundamentals once again become the major consideration 
 crude oil for november delivery edged up by cents a barrel to $ a barrel 
 heating oil prices also rose 
 november gasoline slipped slightly 
 sugar 
 futures prices rose on a report that cuba may seek to postpone some sugar shipments 
 the march contract advanced cent a pound to cents 
 according to an analyst cuba ca n't meet all its shipment commitments and has asked japan to accept a delay of shipments scheduled for later this year into early next year 
 japan is perceived as a wealthy nation that can turn elsewhere in the world market and buy the sugar the analyst said 
 it was the possibility of this demand that helped firm prices the analyst said 
 another analyst noted that cuba has been deferring shipments in recent years 
 to the professionals in the trade it did n't cause much surprise 
 the march futures contract traded as high as cents but could n't sustain the advance he said 
 livestock and  
 the prices of cattle  and pork  futures contracts rebounded as livestock traders shook off fears that the friday stock market plunge would  consumer spending which in turn would hurt retail sales of beef and pork 
 the prices of most livestock futures contracts had dropped sharply monday 
 cattle futures prices were also supported yesterday by signs that supermarket chains are making plans to increase their promotions concerning beef 
 grains and soybeans 
 the prices of most soybean and  futures contracts rose amid rumors that the soviet union is interested in buying from the u.s. or south america about metric tons of soybeans and as many as metric tons of soybean  
 traders are especially sensitive to reports of possible u.s. soybean sales because u.s. exports are lagging 
 since sept. about million fewer  of u.s. soybeans have been sold overseas than for the same period last year 
 corn futures prices rose slightly while wheat prices settled mixed 
 moody 's investors service inc.  about increasing competitive pressure on ryder placed about $ billion in company securities under review for possible downgrade 
 ratings under review are ryder 's  collateral trust debentures  senior notes and bonds  preferred stock and the company 's  rating for commercial paper 
 moody 's said it is assessing the strategies ryder 's management may follow in addressing significant challenges in some major markets 
 the rating agency said it is focusing especially on the transportation service company 's efforts to control costs improve margins and enhance its competitive position in its primary business vehicle leasing and rental 
 the nations of southern africa know a lot about managing  their  are thriving 
 but the nations of europe and north america have decided they know better 
 at this week 's u.n. conference in  they imposed a global ivory ban that seeks to  local policies 
 a  delegate argued that the ban would guarantee the  of the elephant 
 legitimate  who have an interest in preserving the  would go out of business 
 would control the underground trade 
 many delegates were willing to craft a compromise but u.s. delegate   and others  that down 
 the greens from the first world wanted a  play not a negotiation 
 fortunately the nations of southern africa have n't totally surrendered their sovereignty 
 five countries announced they would not honor what one  delegate  called the made in switzerland solution 
 in fact they seemed a   
 the director of  's wildlife department described american  as fat little  from urban environments who do n't know a thing about africa 
 that 's not fair they 're not all fat 
 blast generates  for aid from south carolina small businesses 
 the small business administration has received more than formal requests for disaster loans because of the hurricane 
 about N of requests for  relief loans which also are available to homeowners come from small businesses compared with a N business share after most disasters 
 the  expects to make about $ billion in hurricane hugo loans 
 the disaster fund is  by loan  
 hardest hit by hugo in south carolina were small retailers tied to the tourist industry and businesses in agriculture and   
 the state development board set up a hugo  to accept  help 
 after nbc weather man  scott broadcast the  number it was flooded with calls 
 last week the u.s. chamber of commerce began using its national tv show to seek help such as equipment for business owners 
 local bankers and accountants help applicants fill out forms 
 it helps us and people feel better talking to someone who 's gone through the same thing an  official says 
 health benefits remain a central lobbying effort even as section  
 the senate after  section repeal from its deficit-reduction bill still is expected to join the house in voting to kill the law which forces companies to provide comparable benefits to  and executives alike 
 in lobbying on other  topics the national federation of independent business will press for legislation that would give self-employed people a N tax deduction for their own health plans up from N currently 
 and the group will urge that the federal government  state rules on what must be covered by employers ' health insurance 
 small-business groups also will fight the  provision of legislation that would expand parental leaves 
 and they still oppose as too costly an  health insurance bill sponsored by sen. edward kennedy d. mass despite his proposal to phase in small business only gradually 
 there is also worry that the  commission studying long-term health care will again push lawmakers toward  solutions 
 the section victory could have a downside by making it harder to oppose lawmakers on other health proposals 
 with the repeal of section we can no longer say they 're discouraging businesses from offering health plans says  russell the chamber of commerce 's small-business advocate 
 jumping the gun 
 sen. lloyd  d. texas was  after a private word to john  lobbyist for the national federation of independent business resulted in a news release saying that the senate finance committee chairman would recommend repeal of section 
 even though the announcement was true in the end it was issued without the senator 's permission 
 i  it mr.  says  
 it was a timing mistake 
 blues 
 sen.  thurmond r. s.c protests pending legislation to end the preference that the federal prison system gets in selling  furniture and other goods to government agencies 
 small-business suppliers want prisons to stop getting high priority especially as prison production grows with swelling   
 last year the prisons ' sales to the pentagon totaled $ million 
 repair shops scrap for more access to work on  systems 
 groups representing some independent  shops join a compromise on the clean air legislation worked out between environmentalists and rep. henry waxman d. calif 
 the plan would increase the warranty on  systems to eight years or miles from five years or for major parts 
 but the warranty on simpler parts would be lowered to two years or miles 
 the garage owners say they would benefit because car owners would be less likely to go back to dealers for the simpler repairs after two years 
 the repair shops are n't united however 
 shops represented by the automotive service industry association and the motor equipment manufacturers association oppose any increase in warranty length 
 they say the longer the warranty the longer customers will automatically return to  dealers which then find  work that might otherwise go to repair shops 
 the house energy committee will debate the issue later this month 
   an atlanta garage owner who opposes a longer warranty estimates that the current plan costs him as much as $ a year in lost business 
 small talk 
 some N of graduates who recently earned an  degree say they 'd prefer to work in or own a small company yet most take jobs with large concerns says a survey by the foster  group a new york recruiting firm 
 scientific inc. of  md. seeks a small business innovation research grant to produce a  assembly for an army mass  outfit 
 banc one corp. said frank e.  plans to retire as the bank holding company 's president effective jan. 
 banc one said it is contemplated that john b.  chairman and chief executive officer will assume the additional position of president upon mr.  's retirement 
 mr.  years old was chairman and chief executive of american fletcher corp. indianapolis when that bank holding company merged into banc one in january 
 the company said mr.  plans to retire because the process of  american fletcher into banc one is considered completed 
 mr.  will continue as chairman of the board and chairman of the executive committee of banc one indiana corp. the successor company to american fletcher corp. but will no longer be active in day-to-day management 
 he will remain on the banc one board 
 the treasury plans to raise $ billion in new cash with the sale monday of about $ billion in short-term bills to redeem $ billion in maturing bills 
 the offering will be divided evenly between 13-week and 26-week bills maturing on jan. N and april N respectively 
 tenders for the bills available in minimum $ denominations must be received by p.m. edt monday at the treasury or at federal reserve banks or branches 
 moody 's investors service inc. said it lowered ratings on about $ million of beatrice co. debt citing the closely held chicago food concern 's proposed recapitalization 
 the ratings concern said it downgraded beatrice notes  and certain industrial revenue bonds to  from  and the company 's subordinated debentures to  from  
 moody 's said the proposed  may limit the company 's ability to realize its profit potential and that paying dividends from a new series of preferred could squeeze basic business operations 
 a beatrice spokesman did n't return calls seeking comment 
 beatrice which went private in an $ billion leveraged buy-out in said last month that it might borrow again to help pay investors as much as $ million in preferred stock and debt securities 
 when the soviets announced their last  had left afghanistan in february the voices of skepticism were all but  out by an international chorus of euphoria 
 it was the soviets ' vietnam 
 the kabul regime would fall 
 millions of refugees would rush home 
 a resistance government would walk into kabul 
 those who bought that illusion are now  
 eight months after gen.   walked across the bridge into the u.s.s.r. a  regime remains in kabul the refugees sit in their camps and the restoration of afghan freedom seems as far off as ever 
 but there never was a chance that the afghan resistance would  the kabul regime quickly and easily 
 soviet leaders said they would support their kabul clients by all means necessary and did 
 the u.s. said it would fully support the resistance and did n't 
 with the february u.n. accords relating to afghanistan the soviet union got everything it needed to consolidate permanent control 
 the terms of the geneva accords leave moscow free to provide its clients in kabul with assistance of any kind including the return of soviet ground forces while requiring the u.s. and pakistan to cut off aid 
 the only fly in the soviet  was the last-minute addition of a  american  that u.s. aid to the resistance would continue as long as soviet aid to kabul did 
 but as soon as the accords were signed american officials sharply reduced aid 
 in february when the soviets said they had completed their pullout the u.s. cut it further 
 not so the soviets 
 gen.  himself said soviet troops expected to leave behind more than $ billion of military equipment and installations for the kabul regime 
 since the troop withdrawal moscow has poured in an additional $ to $ million worth per month nearly $ billion since february equivalent to the total u.s. aid to the resistance in nine years 
 this includes what deputy foreign minister    called new peaceful  weapons including more than  missiles 
 by early may moscow had delivered for example trucks about tanks  and hundreds of other combat vehicles 
 later that month it added an entire tank  including  tanks and more than    fighting vehicles 
 by september a new reinforced    with an additional combat vehicles more trucks and  afghan troops had arrived in  
 in the last few weeks moscow has added  missiles the bomber version of the    aircraft  which can  pakistan 's   and    which can  the  
 moscow claims this is all needed to protect the kabul regime against the guerrilla resistance 
 it is well-known that the regular afghan  is filled with reluctant  
 but this is not the entire afghan army and it is no longer kabul 's only military force 
 complete units have been trained and  in the u.s.s.r. and other east bloc nations to of these troops have returned 
 in addition the regime has established   forces totaling more than including  troops of the interior ministry  which still is directed by soviet kgb officers 
 even if not all these forces are committed to the regime they are now dependent on it 
 and thousands of afghan children have been taken to the soviet union where they are  for the behavior of their families 
 since indian military advisers have been  the kabul regime 
 in preparation for the withdrawal moscow kabul and new  signed two agreements for several hundred newly civilian indian experts to replace some of the more visible soviet military personnel 
 cuban military personnel also have been active in afghanistan since 
 the soviets cut a deal with iran a future iranian role in afghanistan in exchange for iranian support of soviet policy 
 the deal was  by the restoration of the     to the afghan prime ministry 
 moreover serious questions have been raised about the claimed withdrawal of soviet forces 
 before his assassination in president  of pakistan repeatedly stated that fresh soviet troops were being inserted into afghanistan even as others were  withdrawn 
 rep. bill  r. fla. reports that these included to soviet central asian kgb border guards   from  and wearing   
 meanwhile the kabul regime is increasingly successful at portraying the resistance as   
 in this they are aided by years of american european  and saudi support for the most extreme  radical   with leaders whose policies are  to the afghan public 
 this heavy outside support for the worst has undermined better moderate leaders 
 in autumn last year for example the regime garrison at  was prepared to surrender the city to resistance  
 at the last minute however  officials sent in   perhaps the most  and feared of the  with a demand that the surrender be made to his forces 
 the deal fell through and  remains a major regime base 
 the resistance lacks not only air power  and expertise but often such  as  mine detectors or even winter  
 experienced resistance  wanted to use guerrilla action and  tactics to wear down the regime 
 instead they were pressured by pakistan 's isi the channel for their support into attacking  
 they took more than N  journalists report that they faced  without mine detectors 
 the wonder is not that the resistance has failed to topple the kabul regime but that it continues to exist and fight at all 
 last summer in response to congressional criticism the state department and the cia said they had resumed military aid to the resistance months after it was cut off but it is not clear how much is being sent or when it will arrive 
 for months the resistance has been  against air attack 
 thus far there is no indication that they have been  with  or other  weapons 
 indeed u.s. officials have indicated to the press that the  of aid depends on what success the weakened resistance  by the end of this year 
 moscow and kabul must have found that information useful 
 for a decade u.s. policy has been  based on  and the defense of bureaucratic and political turf 
 no settlement negotiated by others can force the afghan people to give up their struggle 
 a  of u.s. military aid would merely abandon them to die in  
 creation of a new realistic u.s. policy is long overdue 
 ms.  editor and co-author of afghanistan the great game  freedom house directs the freedom house program on  asia 
 nothing  the soul of ronald reagan and his  as much as the crusade to aid nicaragua 's contra rebels or the dream of building a  defense shield to knock out soviet nuclear missiles 
 yet under mr. reagan 's preferred successor president bush those two   causes are  on the  
 and surprisingly little more than a  of protest is being heard even though  once  fire supporting the contras and the strategic defense initiative 
 the programs have  says rep. henry  a conservative republican from illinois 
 yet he asserts you look around and you say who are the leaders 
 who is going to carry the water 
 it is n't surprising that president bush has n't led a crusade to pump up the contras or sdi 
 though he  supports both programs mr. bush has n't been a  champion of either cause as mr. reagan was 
 what 's surprising is that there is n't more of a conservative outcry as the bush administration lets the programs slip down the  list 
 a combination of factors a  among some conservatives a decline in the perception of a soviet threat and a  with other issues seem to explain the strange  
 above all though conservative republicans who have  both the contras and sdi are reluctant to attack a republican president for failing to do more though that reluctance may be  
 we want to complain we want to say something about it and we 're going to as it gets worse says rep. dan burton an indiana republican who has been a  contra backer 
 but it 's like  your father in the  
 you hate to do it because he 's your father 
 mr. burton says conservatives '  with mr. bush 's cautious handling of the recent unsuccessful coup in panama will make them more willing to speak out 
 of course neither president bush nor the congress has actually abandoned the contras or sdi 
 mr. bush has struck a deal with congressional leaders to provide  aid to the contras until nicaragua holds national elections next february 
 but the administration has dropped any effort to win military aid for the rebels 
 and the administration 's deal with congress gives several congressional committees the right to cut off even humanitarian aid next month though the committees are likely to let aid continue until february 
 most analysts think there 's little prospect the contras can be a significant fighting force without u.s. arms and after the february election their future in any form will be  at best 
 instead of focusing on the contras mr. bush has switched to urging members of congress most recently in a white house meeting yesterday to approve financing for the election campaign of political opponents of nicaragua 's sandinista government 
 the administration continues to support sdi or star wars and it recently lobbied to persuade the senate to restore some of the funds it planned to cut from the program 
 and just last week defense secretary dick cheney gave a strong speech listing compelling reasons to push ahead with sdi and saying he 'd urge president bush to veto a defense bill with inadequate funding for the program 
 but the strong pitch by mr. cheney may be too little too late to prevent damage to sdi 
 the house has already voted for a deep cut in funding and in the end the program 's backers will be hard pressed to head off some reduction in spending next year 
 and while the defense secretary is speaking out president bush himself has n't launched any  campaign to drum up support as president reagan did 
 the administration also acknowledges that it is n't pursuing mr. reagan 's original vision of an  shield protecting the whole u.s. but rather a more modest version 
 more  to sdi supporters the bush administration appears to have  accepted a new arms-control proposal from the soviet union that  long-term trouble for star wars 
 the soviets have agreed to complete a treaty cutting strategic weapons without including restrictions on  defenses 
 but the soviets also are insisting that they will reserve the right to withdraw from the completed  treaty later on if the u.s. does sdi testing or  that the soviets think violates the existing  treaty 
 it will be hard down the road to persuade congress to approve money for sdi plans if lawmakers fear those plans could scuttle a completed treaty 
 as a result frank  a former reagan pentagon aide who now heads the center for security policy charges that the administration 's  of continued commitment to development and  of the sdi program strain  
 still proponents may be  away from more  because they sense political  have turned against  the nicaraguan rebels or boosting spending on sdi particularly when the public  the soviet threat is declining under mikhail gorbachev 
 in fact because communism seems to be beating a global retreat some conservatives may simply be so pleased that their  philosophy is prevailing that they do n't have the fire at the moment to push controversial programs 
 the short of it is that the most  among us can not get into too sour a mood with communism  says mitchell  a former reagan white house aide who now is president of the hudson institute 
 some activists are  to raise the profile of the two causes 
 but they say they ca n't make much  because of a lack of willing leaders in a position to turn the tide 
 one longtime champion of these programs in congress republican whip   of georgia is  by questions about his ethics conservatives note 
 other conservative  like wyoming republican sen. malcolm  a longtime sdi advocate do n't have the clout with the bush white house that they enjoyed with president reagan 
 above all though proponents say neither the contra nor the sdi cause can be pushed much further without more presidential support 
 for there to be wind in the  of any program the chief executive has to be  in the  says rep. burton 
 all this causes rep.  to  about an  way to drum up more enthusiasm 
 what i 'd like to see if he is up to it is for reagan to take to the  to  enthusiasm for sdi the congressman says 
 we 're sorry to report that on monday president bush accepted the resignation of william allen as chairman of the u.s. civil rights commission 
 mr. allen appointed by president reagan grew  tired of dealing with the guerrilla tactics of his enemies 
 his recent speech  titled blacks animals  what is a minority caused an  when its title  out 
 mr. allen 's commissioners voted to call his  speech   and   
 commissioner mary francis berry said it was another sad episode in the  of the  missile who is chairman 
 rep. don edwards the california democrat warned mr. allen that the speech would be outside the scope of the commission 's jurisdiction 
 thomas  head of the  legal defense fund called the prospect of the speech frankly  
 we 've actually read the speech 
 mr. allen began it with a warning to his hosts a california church group that opposes rights for  
 he said that other participants in the conference do not believe that the rights of americans should be guaranteed to citizens who are homosexual but that i mean to persuade you to the opposite view 
 he recalled to the audience a strange   he once heard arguing now that we have finally recognized that american blacks have rights we need to do the same for animals 
 mr. allen  to this  because it seems to  the status of blacks to that of animals as a mere project of charity of  
 rights on such a basis whether for blacks or  are mere  he said subject to being taken back 
 he says the title of his speech was to make his point that americans have rights as individuals not as members of certain select groups 
 his speech criticized the  of  of protected groups in society as opposed to individual  or as he put it in a common  as americans 
 instead of lobbying for special treatment mr. allen said that  and others should try to ensure equal treatment under the law and not aim for special privileges that would risk   with government  
 this hardly sounds like an   
 what 's really going on here 
 the three most important things to understand about mr. allen is that he is a black conservative intellectual a triple threat to the liberal establishment 
 mr. allen who teaches government at prestigious   college in california and will remain a member of the commission has spent years arguing that civil rights are individuals ' rights 
 he last made waves when he  to defend an indian girl who had been adopted by  parents off her  
 mr. allen quickly ran up against the liberal establishment again which somehow  the vague concept of indian rights above the rights of individual indians 
 there is a huge divide between mr. allen 's  view and the divisive litigation approach of the civil rights groups 
 indeed the gap is so large that mr. allen 's critics refuse to engage the debate 
 their  of him is no substitute for argument 
 their effort to run him out of washington is an embarrassment to the original purpose of their own movement 
 we hope the next head of the civil rights commission will be as  as mr. allen in making the case for  of civil rights 
 bearings inc. said its chairman john r.  will retire as an officer of the company on jan. 
 george l.  president and chief executive officer will become chairman and chief executive upon mr.  's retirement 
 john c.  executive vice president and chief operating officer will become president and chief operating officer 
 mr.  years old was chief executive of the distributor of bearings and  products from to 
 he will continue as a director 
 mr.  a  veteran at bearings has been president since 
 mr.  joined bearings in august from leaseway transportation corp. where he was president and chief operating officer 
 he has been a bearings director since 
 the appointments are part of a planned succession at the company 
 soviet leader mikhail gorbachev opened a major u.s. trade exhibition in moscow and spent two hours  some of the  representing such blue-chip companies as general motors corp. international business machines corp. and johnson & johnson 
 at the  co. stand mrs. nelson rockefeller a board member offered him a  burger 
 he did n't  
 the exhibition by the  trade and economic council  the growing u.s. interest in that nation 's market though trade between the two countries is a  $ billion 
 the soviet president and his prime minister   spent the longest time about minutes at the ibm stand where they got   key  
 at the gm  they barely looked at a  cadillac  to talk about cooperation possibilities 
 in beijing meantime china opened an international aviation show but the west 's  on military deals and uncertainty about the nation 's stability kept many foreign  away 
 officials said companies from countries including the u.s. had displays down from about firms from more than countries at the last show in 
 japanese  maker daikin industries ltd. was fined two million yen $ for exporting to the soviet union a chemical solution that could be used in  systems 
 a daikin executive in charge of exports when the    was sold to the soviets in received a suspended  jail sentence 
 judge   told the osaka district court daikin 's responsibility is heavy because illegal exports lowered international trust in japan 
 sale of the solution in concentrated form to communist countries is prohibited by japanese law and by international agreement 
 a soviet legislative panel rejected as not radical enough a government proposal on  economic control 
 the newspaper   said the committee decided the plan to parcel out economic powers previously exercised by moscow to the country 's republics does n't reflect the radical changes in the soviet federation 
 the committee gave the government until nov. to revise the proposal 
 the move reflected the growing confidence of the revamped supreme soviet 
 scott paper co. said it is abandoning a proposed $ million  project in indonesia because it no longer expects to use as much  pulp as previously anticipated 
 the   and pulp mill which would have covered about acres in the   region had been approved by indonesia 's investment board 
 but it was opposed by some environmentalists as a threat to   's  and a potential source of social unrest for the   who  them 
   co. of japan is moving its  headquarters and holding company to hong kong to gain from the british colony 's economic advantages and tax structure 
 with funds of billion hong kong dollars us$ million the new company  international co. plans to acquire of hong kong 's top restaurants 
 it also intends to set up an international wholesale market with the singapore government next may and to open a department store in  and shopping centers in malaysia taiwan canada chicago and seattle by december 
 the chain currently has retail outlets in japan seven in the u.s. three in hong kong and a dozen more scattered around the globe 
 major european auction houses are turning increasingly to specialized sales 
 christie 's will soon have a sale of  and  art while sotheby 's is  collectors with sales of swiss german spanish australian and canadian paintings 
 in brussels hotel de   auctioned  and  along with paintings and  
 berlin 's   will auction art works with  estimates of less than $ on nov. 
 the auction house known for its sales of  19th and 20th century works is providing a service to clients who do n't want to sell just their  oil paintings says   's  reuter 
   is less concerned with market  than with belgium 's  tax and  burden 
 everything has to be the same between countries says  's   who is asking clients to sign protest  
 then there 'll be fair competition 
 ending tax-free shopping in the european community after could threaten more than jobs the international duty free confederation said 
 instead of banning such shopping the confederation proposed  controls to be sure the privilege is n't abused 
 british and  diplomats opened talks in madrid aimed at restoring ties  because of their war over the  islands 
 britain 's u.n. representative and delegation head   called the first meeting good interesting and  
 polaroid corp. benefiting from  savings reported a strong gain in third-quarter operating results and net income of $ million or cents a share after  requirements 
 analysts said the numbers were better than expectations partly because of strong profit margins and a positive foreign-currency translation 
 however they said the company 's flat revenue was a disappointment and an indication that sales of polaroid 's new conventional film in the u.s. have been sluggish 
 revenue in the third quarter was $ million almost unchanged from $ million a year earlier 
 polaroid reported operating profit before taxes and interest costs of $ million for the third quarter more than double the  $ million 
 charges for staff cuts and other restructuring produced a net loss of $ million or cents a share in 's third quarter 
 i 'm somewhat skeptical about the underlying demand for polaroid products said michael  an analyst with wertheim schroder & co 
 if you believe that a good performance next year is contingent on an acceleration of revenue there is n't a lot here to base optimism on 
 alex henderson an analyst with prudential-bache says polaroid officials told him yesterday that u.s. sales of the company 's new conventional film product introduced in the second quarter have been disappointing after a promising start 
 sam  a polaroid spokesman said i do n't know about disappointing but added that the company has n't been able to get the product on the shelves of some  discount retailers that it had hoped would be carrying the product already 
 mr.  said the film one film is currently carried at about retail outlets including  and supermarkets 
 for the nine months polaroid reported earnings of $ million or $ a share 
 last year the company had a nine-month loss of $ million or cents a share 
 in new york stock exchange composite trading polaroid closed at $ up $ 
 why is the stock market suddenly so volatile 
 yesterday the dow jones industrial average did a now familiar dance it plunged points before lunch with most of the drop  in minutes 
 then it rebounded to finish down only points 
 and those swings   friday 's 190.58-point plunge and monday 's  recovery 
 it 's  that in an hour you can  off so much value says stanford  chairman of trinity investment management corp. boston 
 and apparently it is here to stay 
 richard bernstein senior  analyst at merrill lynch & co says my gut feel is that we 'll live with those swings for a while 
 there are many reasons for the market 's  new trading vehicles such as stock-index futures and options computer-driven strategies like program trading and crowd psychology 
 but most are linked by a single theme liquidity the ability to get in and out of the market quickly 
 prices are moving up and down so fast because investors are  ways to turn over shares at  rates and increasingly acting in concert 
 institutions are  animals says peter anderson who heads the  management arm of  financial services inc 
 we watch the same indicators and listen to the same  
 like  we tend to move in the same direction at same time 
 and that naturally  price movements 
 institutions who now account for most trading count on being able to buy and sell big blocks of stock at an  
 but when they discover that markets are n't always as liquid as they supposed markets jump 
 on monday for instance howard ward a principal at  stevens & clark found that you could n't buy  at quoted prices without paying up 
 and when many firms had to pay up monday 's sudden rally was sparked 
 trading in futures and options some people believe can add to volatility 
 investors believe they can can rely on such derivative securities to get in and out of the stock market without actually selling any stocks that is a way of staying liquid even when they own stocks 
 these and other modern trading methods tend to promote dramatic shifts in assets says george douglas first vice president at drexel burnham lambert inc 
 it 's the idea that what goes in easy can come out easy so that  of higher volatility get built into the stock market 
 one new investment style called asset allocation shifts portfolio  between stocks bonds and cash when computer models say one is more attractive 
 for instance first  corp. an asset  based in morristown n.j. said it quickly boosted stock positions in its aggressive accounts to N from N to take advantage of plunging prices friday 
 it added another N monday before stocks rallied 
 when they did the firm reduced those stock holdings to about N 
 a classic example of institutions '  for liquidity is portfolio insurance now widely  
 before the crash an estimated $ billion in institutional money was managed under this hedging technique 
 the idea was to insure the value of a portfolio by selling futures when stock prices dropped eliminating the need to sell the stocks themselves 
 but in october when portfolio insurers rushed to sell at the same time they  both the stock and futures markets 
 yet even today institutions are quietly practicing forms of portfolio insurance by nervously rushing to and  in the markets 
 others are doing index arbitrage a strategy of taking advantage of price discrepancies between stocks and futures 
 unlike traditional  strategies all of the above require that market makers be on hand to provide liquidity by buying and selling stocks in a crunch 
 but institutions say wall street brokerage firms are less willing to make markets 
 brokers do n't deny that 
 wall street traders say that with institutional brokerage commissions far lower than in the 1970s securities firms ca n't afford to take the risk of buying too much stock 
 i think everyone 's a little more leery says jack baker head of equity trading at  lehman hutton inc 
 the institutions have driven commission rates down to the point where it makes no sense to commit capital says tom  senior executive vice president in charge of institutional trading at oppenheimer & co 
 why should i risk money for a guy for who 's paying me five cents a dance 
 all you get is risk 
 lack of liquidity can also result from exchange reforms 
 many traders say that circuit breakers put in place to damp volatility after the crash actually added to volatility when the stock market plunged friday 
 the circuit breakers caused a  shutdown in trading in standard & poor 's 500-stock index futures contract as the markets were falling 
 with the  halt you could only sell stocks to cut exposure to the market says a money manager 
 it was scary to people thinking that they could n't get their trades off 
 it was like they put you in a room with a  and told you there were three doors to exit said one chicago-based futures trader 
 then they said by the way two of the doors are locked 
 the takeover mania also adds to volatility 
 ual corp. is a good example 
 valued as a buy-out target the airline stock was trading at nearly $ a share 
 when the deal ran into trouble the stock tumbled it closed at $ yesterday 
 presumably ual is now trading closer to its value based on earnings 
 by contrast traditional  investors are unlikely to generate sudden price moves 
 scott black a  money manager who heads  management inc. points out that for those who invest on fundamentals the value of a stock from day to day does n't change all that much 
 some experts say markets are n't as volatile as widely assumed 
 stoll finance professor at  university says the current volatility in u.s. markets  in comparison to the 1930s decades before derivative instruments such as options and futures were introduced 
 i just ca n't believe that the  in the financial market are causing any of this volatility he says 
 and robert d.  president of asset  first  notes that before friday 's tailspin daily volatility on the new york stock exchange in recent weeks had reached historically low levels 
 some people tend to ignore that a  move is less in percentage terms than it was when the stock market was lower 
 john j. phelan jr. chairman of the big board asserts that and have been two of the least volatile years in the last or years 
 but the low average volatility mr. phelan is talking about is n't any comfort in a period of rapid stock-market moves like the past week 
 in addition sanford  a  school finance professor says volatile  in stock prices will continue as long as liquidity falls short of the  demands of institutions who can go out and say i have a billion dollars of stocks to sell 
 some people think the search for liquidity is  
 in john maynard  wrote that of the  of orthodox finance none surely is more  than the  of liquidity 
 it leads investors to focus on short-term price movements a game of musical chairs he called it rather than on long-term fundamental valuation 
 james a. white contributed to this article 
 the national aeronautics and space administration said a computer virus has infected one of its networks and is spreading anti-nuclear messages related to its galileo space probe which is to be launched today 
 charles redmond a nasa spokesman said the agency discovered the virus on monday on the collection of computer networks  called  and expected university centers to be infected by today 
 although the network is n't connected to the computer systems that operate either galileo or the shuttle part of the network will carry  of galileo data once the craft gets  
 mr. redmond said the  had n't yet done any harm but the agency feared garbage data could be  for real data 
 he estimated it could take a day for a computer security manager to  the virus from a computer system 
 the  among the  yet to hit a research network appeared to affect only digital equipment corp. hardware that uses digital 's  operating system 
 it is unrelated to the  virus that last year infected  a much larger network used by researchers at universities laboratories and government agencies around the world 
 in the  of computer security the nasa  is technically a computer worm mr. redmond said 
 a worm  in the operating system of a computer and spreads by boring into other computers contacted through networks 
 the galileo worm apparently was  on a computer in france  up to nasa 's space physics analysis network mr. redmond said 
 nasa said the galileo worm had n't affected its computers or the computers of other government agencies because they had modified their systems to reject  
 but mr. redmond said the worm hit universities that had n't elected to make the changes 
 michael alexander a senior editor at  a trade publication said he was told that the worm gets into a computer center by looking for obvious  such as ones that are the same as the user 's name 
 if it finds one and gets into the system it will display a screen when a user  on that says  against nuclear  
 you talk of times of peace for all and then prepare for war 
 in addition mr. alexander said the worm sends strange messages to other machines at the center such as george  was an  or do n't feed the  tonight 
 the worm also looks for   that  more privileges on the user 
 the  are included in the system software when it is installed but are supposed to be replaced as soon as the system is up and running 
 if it finds one of those  mr. alexander said the worm will do such things as change users '  to a series of random numbers preventing them from signing on to the network 
 nasa estimated that on monday about four computer centers were affected 
 yesterday the number grew to today the number is expected to grow to 
 nasa said it will take about a week before it knows exactly how many centers of the connected to  were affected and the extent of the damage if any 
 anti-nuclear activists have  the launch of the galileo space probe to jupiter because it uses  to generate the electricity needed to run the craft 
 activists fear that if the shuttle carrying galileo into  should  or if galileo itself crashes into the earth during the two times it flies close to the planet fatal levels of  would be released into the atmosphere 
 so far galileo has been delayed twice once because of a computer  connected with a  engine and yesterday because of the weather 
 nasa said the galileo worm had nothing to do with either delay 
 mr. alexander of  said  have gone after span before 
 he said the chaos computer club of west germany once managed to  span and do such things as change the value of   up some calculations 
 it is now a  that prosecutors are bringing criminal  in cases where until a few years ago only a civil action at most would have been brought 
 yet it is also  that the power to create new crimes belongs only to the legislature and not to courts 
 beginning in the early 19th century with u.s. v. hudson and  the supreme court has repeatedly held that a judicial power to declare conduct to be against the public interest and hence criminal while well established in british law would  legislative authority under the doctrine of separation of powers 
 that 's the conventional theory anyway 
 in practice however the line between interpretation and  of the criminal law long ago began to  
 in particular a common law of white-collar crime has developed with surprising  over the past decade 
 for example although insider trading has long been criminal it has never been  defined 
 in the supreme court tried to supply a  definition in the  v. sec decision which found that liability depended on whether the  had  his fiduciary duty to the corporation in order to obtain some personal gain and whether the  knew or   this fact 
 gradually however lower courts and prosecutors have pushed this definition to its breaking point 
 consider the facts underlying the conviction of robert chestman 
 prior to a tender offer by  for  inc. in the founder of the  's supermarket chain called an elderly relative to tell her to  her stock certificates for delivery 
 she called her daughter to take her to the bank who in turn persuaded her husband a mr.  to run this  
 hearing of this information the husband discussed it with his broker mr. chestman and mr. chestman then bought for his own account and other clients 
 basically mr. chestman was a   
 did mr.  his  breach a fiduciary duty and if so to whom 
 did mr.  seek personal gain and if so how 
 or did mr. chestman only hear a market rumor which one may  trade upon 
 the line seems  thin for  purposes 
 a second illustration is supplied by the recent guilty plea entered by robert freeman formerly head of arbitrage at goldman sachs & co 
 essentially mr. freeman had invested heavily in the beatrice leveraged buy-out when he was told by another prominent trader bernard bunny  that the deal was in trouble 
 after placing orders to sell mr. freeman called martin  an investment banker at kidder peabody & co. who was advising on the deal to confirm these rumors 
 mr.  asked mr. freeman who his source was and on hearing that it was bunny  responded well your bunny has a good nose 
 the illegal tip of the bunny 's good nose was then largely a confirmation of rumors already known to many in the market 
 had the case gone to trial the same issues would have surfaced 
 was there a fiduciary breach in order to obtain personal gain 
 did mr. freeman have notice of this 
 finally was the information material 
 yet all these issues are subsidiary to a more central issue who is and who should be making the criminal law here 
 it is not my  that either mr. chestman or mr. freeman was an innocent victim of prosecutorial  
 both were on notice that their behavior was at least risky 
 but even if they behaved  reasons still exist to fear and resist this steady process of  judicial extension of the law of insider trading 
 courts and legislatures make decisions in very different ways and are each susceptible to very different kinds of errors 
 judicial examination of an actor 's conduct has always been the common law 's method 
 when only civil liability is involved this method has the  strengths of   and  of  
 still   decision making of this sort is vulnerable to the tunnel vision caused by a  on ad  and usually  examples 
 when a court decides that a particular actor 's conduct was  and so  the definition of insider trading to reach this conduct it does not see the potentially enormous number of other cases that will be covered by the expanded rule 
 thus a court is poorly positioned to make judgments about the social utility of the expanded rule 
 for example in focusing on mr. freeman 's attempt to gain  information about a deal 's collapse one does not naturally think about the reverse side of the coin what if the rumor had been false 
 can a security analyst call an investment banker to make certain that a seemingly  rumor is in fact false 
 in the past not only would reputable professionals have rushed to check out such rumors with the company but companies listed on the major stock exchanges were encouraged by the exchanges to respond openly to such inquiries from securities analysts 
 today after mr. freeman 's plea there is an uncertainty that is both unfair and inefficient 
 in this light the  advantages of legislative  become clear before it acts the legislature typically will hear the views of representatives of all those affected by its decision not just the immediate parties before the court and the legislature can frame bright line standards that create less uncertainty than the  decisions of courts 
 although legislative lines can result in  which explains why the sec has long resisted a legislative definition of insider trading judicial  inevitably creates uncertainty because of the  outer  and implications of most judicial decisions 
 at least when the stakes are high uncertainty in turn results in  as individuals do not  to approach an uncertain line closely 
 the federal mail and wire fraud statutes provide even better  of the rapid evolution of a federal common law of white-collar crime 
 in the supreme court attempted in  v. u.s. to halt the  expansion of these statutes by adopting a rule of strict construction for  criminal  
 yet late last year congress effectively reversed this decision by  a  statute that defined fraud to include any scheme to  another of the  right of honest services 
 at a  this may  all fiduciary  and possibly all  by an agent or employee 
 such a statute illustrates the fundamental problem congress finds it is easier to pass    which the courts must thereafter interpret than to engage in the difficult   that are  its responsibility 
 we are confronted less with a judicial power grab than with a legislative  
 predictably when confronted with morally dubious behavior prosecutors will exploit the  such  statutes give them 
 over the long run however  cases will make bad law 
 mr. coffee is a professor at columbia law school 
 corning inc. posted a N decline in third-quarter net income to $ million or cents a share from $ million or $ a share a year earlier 
 the year-earlier figure included a one-time gain of $ million from the sale of corning 's stakes in japanese businesses 
 without the gain operating profit was $ million or cents a share 
 the telecommunications specialty glass ceramic products and  concern said the latest quarter included a tax-loss carry-forward of $ 
 a year earlier net included a $  carry-forward 
 sales rose N to $ million from $ million 
 corning 's chairman and chief executive officer james r.  said operating performance continued to be strong in the telecommunications and health and science segments 
 but the  segment slowed somewhat and consumer products continued below expectations 
 as for joint ventures mr.  said profit was essentially flat due primarily to a slow recovery at  co. in korea following a strike at a major customer and the disruption of shipments to china 
 also profit was hurt by the strength of the dollar overseas which  affected the company 's  rate 
 in new york stock exchange composite trading corning closed at $ down cents 
 ual the  stock that exploded friday 's market  briefly  traders again yesterday 
 within minutes after an a.m. trading halt in ual parent of united airlines the dow jones industrial average plunged nearly points to a  deficit 
 computer-guided buying then kicked in and the industrials regained points in five minutes 
 the  moves show that the stock market remains fragile and volatile ready to jump at the  rumor a few days after its  190.58-point plunge 
 nervous investors continued to limit their buying to blue-chip stocks while   issues 
 the industrial average closed down to 
 new york stock exchange volume was a heavy shares 
 decliners on the big board outnumbered advancers to 
 ual was watched closely and traded heavily 
 the stock tumbled N to on volume of million shares 
 the market is still very touchy about rumors and news on pending takeovers 
 ual which is trying to  a buy-out bid that banks would n't finance represents the future of one of the most powerful  in the bull market corporate restructuring 
 an important element of this phenomenon the  market for junk bonds used often to finance restructurings and takeovers continued to cast a pall over stocks 
 it was a very nervous day said john  partner of the big board specialist firm   
 the volatility wo n't end soon 
 this friday brings the double  hour wall street 's  for the monthly simultaneous expiration of a variety of stock index futures index options and options on individual stocks 
 traders are already  their seat belts 
 previous monthly  of the major market index futures and standard & poor 's  index options have produced spectacular volatility 
 we are in one of those  where you are going to get a lot of volatile expiration action said donald  head of stock-index research at prudential-bache securities 
 investors were buying yesterday but they were running scared to premier blue chips such as procter & gamble which jumped N to 
 investors are buying stocks that have predictable earnings said edward j.  head of block trading at kidder peabody 
 along the way investors dumped takeover stocks and shares of banks that have  debt and risky real estate loans on their books 
 these loans are more of a focus than  debt now said william  senior block trader at prudential-bache securities 
 chase manhattan which sold million additional shares at N monday through an underwriting group led by goldman sachs closed down to 
 citicorp fell to and manufacturers hanover slipped to N 
 chase and citicorp 's citibank are involved in the ual buy-out financing 
 both citicorp and manufacturers hanover reported earnings yesterday 
 in the first hour of trading about one million shares a minute changed hands on the big board as big stock-index arbitrage sell programs pushed prices lower 
 in stock-index arbitrage traders buy or sell big baskets of stocks against offsetting positions in futures 
 traders said many of the sell programs are positions being established ahead of this friday 's expiration 
 aside from computer-guided selling airline stocks took a beating as well 
 the dow jones transportation average fell to close at 
 amr the parent of american airlines continued to retreat in the wake of new york developer donald trump 's decision to withdraw his $  takeover bid 
 the stock fell N to N on million shares 
 delta air lines fell N to N usair group dropped to N southwest airlines dipped to and alaska air group slid to N 
 but texas air the owner of continental and eastern airlines  the group 's decline by rising to N in american stock exchange trading 
 eastern said it is ahead of schedule in  its operations after filing earlier this year for chapter bankruptcy protection from which it expects to emerge early next year 
 philip morris the most active big board issue for the second consecutive session was unchanged at N on million shares 
 other blue-chip consumer issues also fared relatively well pepsico rose N to N coca-cola co. was unchanged at N mcdonald 's also closed unchanged at N and merck rose to N 
 broader averages also fell 
 standard & poor 's 500-stock index fell to and the new york stock exchange composite index fell to 
 among the  stocks that sold off yesterday were disney which closed down N to N 
 industries tumbled to N hilton hotels fell N to and holiday corp. fell N to N 
 among other blue chips exxon gained to N 
 international paper fell N to N union carbide eased to chevron gained to and eastman kodak closed down to N 
 the only industry group to show a gain from the industrial average 's record high on oct. is restaurants 
 among the three  groups with declines of N to N are airlines casinos and securities brokers 
 trading also was heavy in the over-the-counter market 
 the nasdaq composite index closed down to on volume of million shares 
 the environment is a lot more  said gary  manager of equity trading at the otc stock firm needham & co. in new york 
 because there is a lot more volatility now if guys see that they can make a quick N or N profit they 'll take it 
 compaq computer gained N to N on two million shares reflecting market optimism about the prospects for its newly introduced  computer 
   dropped N to N 
 the company 's third-quarter earnings were below both analysts ' forecasts and the year-earlier level 
 blue arrow added to N 
 the british company plans to change its name to manpower the name of its u.s. unit and write off part of nearly $ billion in good will as a possible prelude to  in the u.s. 
 rose to N 
 shearson lehman hutton began its coverage of the company with favorable ratings 
 jumped N to N 
 the company reported that earnings from operations for the september quarter were up about N from a year earlier 
 bay financial which said it may be forced to file under chapter if it ca n't reach an agreement with its lenders to relieve its debt burden plunged N to N 
 the amex market value index fell to 
 volume totaled shares 
 among active amex issues the american depositary receipts of b.a.t industries fell to N on turnover of 
 investment bankers and retailers said the turmoil on wall street may benefit managers who plan to bid for u.s. retailing units of the british firm because takeover prices may not be as high as before the recent correction 
 fruit of the  slipped to N on shares 
 corp. jumped N to on shares 
 carnival cruise lines class a dropped to N on shares 
 amex issues with big percentage price gains included two eastern air lines preferred stocks reacting to the news about improved recovery in flight schedules after the company filed for bankruptcy protection 
 eastern 's class f preferred rose N or N to N the class e preferred gained N or to N 
 the biggest percentage  on the amex was enviropact which jumped N or to N on volume of shares 
 on monday the company a provider of environmental consulting services reported a wider fiscal fourth-quarter loss and predicted a loss for its fiscal first quarter but said a profit is expected for all of fiscal 
 but its  ernst & young said enviropact 's financial situation raises substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern 
 mission resource partners advanced N or N to N 
   and david wilson contributed to this article 
 one liberty properties inc. declared a dividend of cents a share on its $ cumulative convertible preferred stock payable jan. to stock of record dec. 
 but directors of the great neck n.y. real estate investment trust did n't act on the common stock dividend 
 and they wo n't consider such a dividend the trust added before results are available for the first quarter of 
 in part the trust cited the need to retain cash for possible acquisitions 
 according to a spokesman one liberty will have paid out as dividends the required amount of its taxable income to maintain its legal status as a real estate investment trust 
 banks are continuing to go after individual investors despite falling interest rates 
 yields on  certificates of deposit fell at about half the rate of so-called jumbo cds this week according to banxquote money markets an information service based here 
 investors can get slightly higher yields on deposits below $ than they can on deposits of $ and up 
 banks want to remain competitive said  mehl chairman of banxquote 
 october is a big  month and perhaps they anticipate greater demand among people leaving the stock market 
 some bankers are reporting more inquiries than usual about cds since friday 
 reports from branches are that there has been greater interest in the last day or so said steven  a vice president at chemical bank in new york 
 chemical said deposits monday were about $ million higher than usual and it expects more activity as investors receive the proceeds from sales of stock 
 this is no time to be playing in the street 
 the dow has more ups and  than an  proclaimed an  monday in new york newspapers touting lincoln savings bank 's one-year cd 
 harold jones lincoln 's chief retail banking officer said there has n't yet been a  response although the ad included a coupon that could arrive later in the week 
 friday 's market rout came  in the middle of the heaviest month for cd  when a number of banks and thrifts already have promotions under way 
 first national bank of boston for example is offering certain new  an extra quarter of a percentage point on six-month and 12-month cds 
 some banks actually boosted yields on the  term cds in the latest week 
 new york 's citibank for instance increased the yield on  three-month cds to N from N 
 on average however three-month cds at major banks are yielding a  of a percentage point less than they were a week ago 
 average yields on cds aimed at individual investors fell less than half as much as yields on treasury bills sold at monday 's auction 
 six-month cds of $ and less yielded an average N in the week ended tuesday down from N according to banxquote 
 the yield on six-month  fell to N on monday from N the week before 
 meanwhile the average yield on six-month cds of more than $ fell to N in the latest week according to banxquote from N the week before 
 mr. mehl noted that actual rates are almost identical on small and  cds but yields on cds aimed at the individual investor are boosted by more frequent  
 cds sold by major brokerage houses which like jumbo cds tend to closely follow interest rate trends also posted larger drops in yields 
 a six-month  cd for example was yielding an average N in the latest week a fifth of a percentage point lower than the week before 
 in late april when interest rates were at their recent highs short-term cds sold by brokers were offering yields half a percentage point or more higher than banks 
 cd yields are generally expected to fall further in coming weeks 
 what happened in the stock market and the bigger trade deficit reported yesterday make it unlikely that short-term interest rates will rise any time soon said mr. mehl of banxquote 
 even before the market drop rates were down about half a percentage point said robert j. hutchinson senior vice president for retail marketing at manufacturers hanover trust co. in new york 
 that puts pressure on cd rates 
 conservatives have an important decision to make this fall 
 at the recent meetings of the world bank and international monetary fund the bush administration announced its intention to decide by  the size of the next increase in the imf 's capital base 
 while the u.s. share of the increase probably will not reach the $ billion or more implicit in the imf 's request for a doubling of its $ billion capital the administration probably will agree to a multibillion-dollar increase 
 this would be consistent with its  support for the brady plan and  exchange-rate intervention and with its financial commitment to mexico poland and others 